<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="6lo.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF115-6LO-20221109-1500">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 09 Nov 2022 15:00</p>
<h1>6lo</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The 6lo working group meeting covered several updates and new drafts, including IPv6 over NFC, six low use cases, multicast address listener registration, prefix registration, path aware semantic addressing (PASA), transmission of Chic compressed packets, and IP payload compression excluding the transport layer. Discussions focused on addressing ISG feedback, refining drafts based on working group input, and exploring new use cases.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>IPv6 over NFC:</strong> Updates were presented, incorporating feedback from Eric Vyncke. The draft is scheduled for a second telechat in December.</li>
<li><strong>Six low use cases:</strong> Resolved Robert Sparks' concerns regarding appendix A and the security control section. Awaiting feedback after updates.  Also, PLC was discussed.</li>
<li><strong>Multicast address listener registration:</strong> Improved terminology and enhanced Ripple integration. Question raised about inconsistent uptime option. Will be ready for WG Last Call soon.</li>
<li><strong>Prefix registration:</strong> New draft presented. Explores prefix registration and its interaction with Ripple. Discussion on using errors/RNs. Amanda mentioned early INR discussion.</li>
<li><strong>Path Aware Semantic Addressing (PASA):</strong> Updates following the call for adoption. Clarified use cases, adopting the 6lo routing header for encapsulation. Luigi agreed to work further with Pascal on external communication.</li>
<li><strong>PASA Reliability Considerations:</strong> Discussed two main solution classes (multiple addresses vs. single address) and their respective state management requirements.</li>
<li><strong>Transmission of Chic compressed packets:</strong> Document nearing completion, with updates to multi-hop communication approaches and frame formats. Request for working group adoption.</li>
<li><strong>IP Payload Compression Excluding Transport Layer:</strong> New extension to IPComp presented. Discussed two negotiation issues.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>IPv6 over NFC:</strong> Author to produce revision 19 with the new reference of RFC 756.</li>
<li><strong>Multicast address listener registration:</strong> Start WG Last Call. Circulate to six man.</li>
<li><strong>Prefix registration:</strong> Working group to review the draft and provide feedback.</li>
<li><strong>Transmission of Chic compressed packets:</strong> Perform a poll to get a sense from the room on the draft. Start working group adoption call on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>IP Payload Compression Excluding Transport Layer:</strong> Send document pointer to 6lo mailing list.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Address ISG feedback on IPv6 over NFC and six low use cases following December telechat.</li>
<li>Progress towards working group last call for Multicast Address Listener Registration.</li>
<li>Evaluate Prefix registration proposal and determine adoption path.</li>
<li>Continue refinement of the PASA and Chic compression drafts.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
