**Session Date/Time:** 07 Nov 2022 13:00

# 6man

## Summary
The 6man working group meeting covered several topics, including the status of various drafts related to IPv6 extension headers, SRv6, and network slicing. Discussions focused on hop-by-hop option processing, extension header limits, SRv6 prefix allocation, and generalizing IPv6 options for network resource partitioning. There were also presentations on neighbor discovery protocol enhancements for multi-homing and securing neighbor discovery.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Hop-by-Hop Option Processing Draft:** Discussion centered around the separation of concerns between hop-by-hop processing and general extension header handling, with a suggestion to maintain separate drafts. Ron proposed merging the hop-by-hop and extension header drafts, but authors indicated they believed keeping the drafts separate was better and they needed to be consistent with each other and refer to each other. Suresh raised concerns about making the first option in a header special. Analysis of real-world hop-by-hop deployment data was presented.
*   **Extension Header Limits Draft:** The presentation focused on specifying concrete limits for extension header processing. The need for consistency between hop-by-hop processing and extension header limits drafts was emphasized. The different roles of intermediate and destination nodes was also discussed.
*   **SRv6 Prefix Allocation Draft:** Comments from the Spring working group were pending. The optional nature of using the allocated prefix was emphasized, and a straw man proposal for how the prefix will look in the special purpose registry was presented.
*   **Carrying Video Information in IPv6 Extension Header:** Discussions centered around generalizing the scope of the waiting option to cover a set of network attributes not only for Network slicing but for generic scenarios. Concerns were raised about the identifier size being limited to 32 bits. The scope of generalizing the option was discussed.
*   **Generic Identifier Draft:** The draft discussed a generic container for carrying an ID and its trade-offs. Discussions considered whether an existing protocol like Router Advertisement could be extended or a new option with a registry was needed.
*   **Neighbor Discovery Protocol Enhancements for Multi-homing:** This talk covered a proposal to refine the problem statement and incorporating provisioning domains feedback. This proposal involves selecting source address before looking up routing, a possible conflict with existing algorithms to prefer unreachable destinations. It was suggested to consult prior work from the Interior working group.
*   **IOM Capabilities Discovery:** The applicability of a new draft on IOM Capabilities was discussed.
*   **CJ Lite:** Edward gave a short talk on CJ lite, a proposal to secure neighbor discovery.
*   **IPv6 Link and Subnet in Radio Networks:** There was a presentation about how IPv6 has evolved in the radio networking world.
*   **New Router Flag Proposal:** There was a short discussion of the New Router Flag proposal.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Hop-by-Hop and Extension Header Drafts:** The authors will work to ensure consistency between the two drafts.
*   **SRv6 Prefix Allocation Draft:** The draft will wait for the Spring working group's conclusion before progressing. Authors to circulate text regarding the optional use of prefix.
*   **IOM Capabilities Draft:** Determine whether the draft should be experimental or standard track if the group adopts it.
*   **New Router Flag:** There was a general feeling that more analysis of this approach should take place. Determine where to progress draft either in sixman or Snack.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to revise drafts based on the meeting feedback.
*   Continue discussions on the mailing lists for topics where time ran out.
*   Coordinate with other working groups (Spring, TEAS, Snack, Interior) as needed.
