<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="bess.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF115-BESS-20221111-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 11 Nov 2022 09:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># bess

## Summary

The BESS working group meeting covered a range of topics, including document status updates, presentations on several drafts, and discussions around working group adoption. Key discussions revolved around the progression of existing working group documents, the need for Area Directorate reviews, and security considerations for new proposals.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Document Status:** Several RFCs are in the RFC editor queue, awaiting Miss Refs. A number of drafts are under shepherd's review, with some reviews pending write-ups. Discussion on expired and non-expired working group documents, with a desire to focus more on progressing existing drafts.
*   **EVPN YANG:** Concerns raised about the expired EVPN YANG draft and its relation to the charter. The chairs indicated that the work was parked, not canceled, and could be resumed if dependencies have been cleared and someone is available to work on it.
*   **EVPN &amp; IPvPN Interworking Draft:**  Concerns raised by the IDR working group regarding the deep path attribute, specifically about potential leakage into Safi 1 routes and breaking BGP route selection in partial deployments. The authors acknowledged the issue and will work on a solution to prevent leakage.
*   **Working Group Last Call:** The evpn SR p2mp draft is considered ready for working group last call.
*   **Area Directorate Review:** A reminder was given that all drafts will undergo a routing area directorate review after working group last call.
*    **RFC 7432 bis:** Discussion of changes from O3 including the creation of an IANA registry for the ESI extended community label field.
*   **sBFD and BGP:** Discussion of a draft extending sBFD discriminators into BGP. Concerns were raised about the optional transitive attribute, potential security risks (reflector attacks, inadvertent disclosure), and the need for coordination with the IDR working group.  Security mitigations were discussed, including the use of source IP address verification.
*   **IPv6-only PE design:** The presenter requested feedback on combining the IPv6-only PE design draft and the all-SAFI draft.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **EVPN YANG:** The working group should consider when to resume work on the EVPN YANG draft.
*   **EVPN &amp; IPvPN Interworking Draft:** Authors to work on solutions to address the leakage of the d-path attribute into Safi 1 routes.
*   **Working Group Adoption:** The following drafts requested working group adoption:
    *   evpn vpws Gateway
    *   vpnd bath
    *   sBFD extension
*   **sBFD and BGP:** Authors to consult with the IDR working group about potential issues with the optional transitive attribute and security considerations.
*   **Chairs Action Item:** The chairs will review adoption requests and provide feedback.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to address comments and feedback received on presented drafts.
*   Chairs to schedule working group last calls for drafts that are ready.
*   Working group to prioritize progressing existing drafts.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
