**Session Date/Time:** 08 Nov 2022 16:30

# calext

## Summary

This Calext session covered several important topics, including the status of the Subscription Upgrade document, JS Calendar, JS Contact, and Tasks. Discussions focused on resolving outstanding questions, clarifying specifications, addressing implementation challenges, and planning future work. Key decisions were made regarding versioning for JS Calendar and JS Contact, and the group agreed to explore updating the iTIP specification.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Subscription Upgrade:** The document is in last call but has outstanding questions regarding the "Very" header. A quick review will be done to finalize it before sending it to the ASG.
*   **JS Calendar:** The group discussed the scheduling model differences between JS Calendar and ICalendar and the need for backward compatibility. Key topics included how to convert the scheduling information in ICalendar, and a call for more implementations and reviewers. The possibility of adding a version number to JS Calendar was also discussed.
*   **JS Contact:** The group aims to start a working group last call for JS Contact soon, after addressing a few nits and discussing versioning. The effort to align JS Contact with vCard and other protocols was highlighted.
*   **Tasks:** The discussion focused on changes related to the `VSTATUS` property and the use of the `participant` property. The group also debated the duration and estimated duration properties and a restriction in RFC 5545 requiring a `DTSTART` when a `DURATION` is present.
*   **iTIP Rewrite:** The group discussed the potential benefits of rewriting the iTIP specification to improve clarity and address inconsistencies. This rewrite would consider incorporating JS Calendar representations.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Subscription Upgrade:** Mike to provide a quick review, and the shepherd will submit the document to ASG after updates.
    *   Action: Mike to review.
*   **JS Calendar:** Ken offered to help with the mapping document and implementation. The group will continue discussions on the mailing list regarding versioning and the integration with JMAP.
    *   Action: Ken to assist with the mapping document and implementation.
*   **JS Contact:** Daniel will issue a working group last call after the document is updated with clarifications and a versioning proposal.
    *   Action: Robert to publish a new version of JS Contact.
    *   Action: Daniel to issue a working group last call.
*   **Tasks:** Mike will review the Task draft again and assess if it is ready for a last call. The draft will be updated to address the issue related to the `DTSTART` and `DURATION` properties in RFC 5545.
    *   Action: Mike to review the Tasks draft and update it regarding the RFC 5545 duration issue.
*   **iTIP Rewrite:** Mike will create a draft for a rewritten iTIP specification.
    *   Action: Mike to create an iTIP draft.

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussions on the mailing list for JS Calendar, JS Contact, Tasks and iTIP.
*   Focus on implementation and interoperability testing for JS Calendar and JS Contact.
*   Prepare for working group last calls for JS Contact and Tasks (after updates).
*   Review and update the milestones to reflect current progress and future plans.
