**Session Date/Time:** 07 Nov 2022 13:00

# core

## Summary

The core working group met at IETF-115 to discuss several drafts, including updates on href, conditional attributes, a new Target attribute registry, group OSCORE, profiling ADHOC for CoAP/OSCORE, key update for OSCORE/Kudos, DNS over CoAP, and encoding DNS messages in CBOR. Key discussions revolved around extensibility of URI scheme registries, security considerations for group OSCORE, and the trade-offs between complexity and optimization in DNS message encoding. Several documents are nearing working group last call.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **href (Concise URI References):**
    *   Discussed the extensibility of scheme ID registries for URIs, with a focus on pre-filling the registry and coordinating with the IANA URI scheme registry. The idea of adding a column for Cris number was presented.
    *   Concerns were raised on whether there should be a central or decentralized registry approach.
    *   Test vectors were planned for the appendix.
*   **Conditional Attributes:**
    *   The document is in working group last call.
    *   One open issue remains requiring minor code review.
    *   Discussion on requesting an early review from the IoT Directorate.
*   **Target Attribute Registry:**
    *   The draft proposes a new sub-registry for Target attributes in the core parameters registry.
    *   Expert review policy was discussed, along with guidance for designated experts.
    *   Discussion about whether the attributes pertain to the link or to the link target and possible ways to handle that.
    *   The usefulness of supporting pointers to external specifications was presented.
*   **Group OSCORE:**
    *   Updates on handling multiple responses and security properties.
    *   A new target attribute, GOSK, was proposed.
    *   Discussion about unifying the handling of notifications and other requests for multiple responses.
*   **Profiling ADHOC for CoAP/OSCORE:**
    *   Discussion on the performance benefits of the optimized workflow vs the original edoc workflow.
    *   Target attributes for added resources will be registered in the new Target attribute registry.
    *   Proposal to include a response to the edit message tree.
*   **Key Update for OSCORE/Kudos:**
    *   Updates on the Kudos procedure, key usage limits, and updating OSCORE IDs.
    *   Concerns regarding added complexity and need to signal protocol features.
    *   Server must include a partial AV in responses.
    *   Discussion about splitting the document into separate parts.
*   **DNS over CoAP:**
    *   Discussion on various concerns with using CoAP to handle DNS requests and their associated benefits and drawbacks.
    *   Proposed solutions to common issues.
    *   Discussion on whether it needs a default path and if so what its default value should be.
*   **Encoding DNS Messages in CBOR:**
    *   Proposal to reduce DNS message sizes by encoding in CBOR.
    *   Discussion around existing alternative DNS formats and ways to avoid existing problems.
    *   Concerns raised about ossification and the challenges of ensuring future extensibility.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **href:** Work on dash 12, do working group last call, address the comments and suggestions and include test vectors.
*   **Conditional Attributes:** Complete the remaining issue, welcome more reviews, and request an early review from the IoT directorate.
*   **Target Attribute Registry:** Start a working group adoption call.
*   **Group OSCORE:** Submit version 17, adding the new Target attribute and wait for input and review.
*   **Profiling ADHOC for CoAP/OSCORE:** Initiate working group last call.
*   **Key Update for OSCORE/Kudos:** Hard split of the limits for now. The rest will be discussed in a future meeting.
*   **DNS over CoAP:** Address the feedback provided and pick an ID for the application DNS message for Content format.
*   **DNS CBOR:** Revise the format based on the feedback. Propose the work to DNSOP and revise the format based on their input.

## Next Steps

*   Next interim on November 23rd to cover hrefs and Target attributes.
*   Continue discussions on mailing lists for open issues.
*   Francesca to send email regarding errata agreement.
