<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="dance.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF115-DANCE-20221110-1530">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 10 Nov 2022 15:30</p>
<h1>dance</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The dance IETF working group session covered the current document status, working group activity levels, and presentations on architecture and use cases.  Two documents, &quot;TLS DANE Client ID&quot; and &quot;DANE Client ID Certificate,&quot; have entered last call.  Discussions focused on refining the architecture document, exploring various use cases (including those involving end users and IoT devices), and addressing privacy considerations. There was also a discussion about potential interim meetings.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Architecture Document Refinement:</strong> Ole Johansson presented ideas on restructuring the architecture document into a general overview, separate documents for secure dance, protocol implementation requirements, and protocol-specific examples.  Concerns were raised about its current unstructured nature and the lack of a clear problem statement in the use cases section.</li>
<li><strong>Namespace Considerations:</strong>  A discussion arose about the flat namespace currently described in the documents and the potential need for a hierarchical structure, especially with a large number of entries.</li>
<li><strong>Privacy Implications:</strong> Protecting user privacy when using DANE was discussed, with suggestions to explore hashing techniques in DNS.</li>
<li><strong>Ownership Transfer:</strong>  The meeting participants considered handling the transfer of device ownership, as well as what zone a device ID should be created in.</li>
<li><strong>Last Call Documents:</strong> Feedback on the TLS DANE Client ID and DANE Client ID Certificate documents was requested, with emphasis on indicating needed changes or explicit support.</li>
<li><strong>Implementation Status and Challenges:</strong> The chairs inquired about implementation progress and encountered challenges.  The meeting participants suggested that a new Dane usage mode and selector might be defined.</li>
<li><strong>LoRaWAN Use Case:</strong> Sandosha presented a LoRaWAN use case highlighting challenges with traditional PKI and how DANE could provide a solution for mutual authentication in a federated environment.</li>
<li><strong>Application Layer Authentication:</strong> Shimon discussed the option of performing DANE-based authentication at the application layer using TLS exported authenticators.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Ole Johansson:</strong> To restructure the architecture document, focusing on general overview.</li>
<li><strong>Rick Moran:</strong> To help Ole Johansson refine the architecture document.</li>
<li><strong>Michael Richardson:</strong> To start a thread on the mailing list regarding the ownership transfer discussion and its impact on the architecture.</li>
<li><strong>Michael Richardson and Victor Dukhovni:</strong> To create a draft for a TLS extension to solicit a certificate request message from the server.</li>
<li><strong>Working Group:</strong> Consider incorporating relevant pieces from the architecture document into protocol documents to make them more standalone.</li>
<li><strong>Chairs:</strong> To determine where the TLS extension draft should be submitted (TLS working group or DANCE working group).</li>
<li><strong>Chairs:</strong> To schedule potential interim meetings, likely one in January, with a call for agenda topics in advance.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Address comments and feedback on the architecture document.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list, particularly regarding ownership transfer and privacy.</li>
<li>Review and comment on the TLS DANE Client ID and DANE Client ID Certificate documents during the last call period.</li>
<li>Prepare for a potential interim meeting in January by submitting agenda topics.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
