**Session Date/Time:** 10 Nov 2022 15:30

```markdown
# drip

## Summary

This meeting focused on the progress of various DRIP drafts, particularly the authentication draft and the Registries draft.  Discussions covered liaison efforts with external organizations (ASTM, ICAO), registry restructuring, implementation updates, and future directions for the working group.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Authentication Draft:**  A second working group last call was conducted.  More reviews are desired despite positive early expert reviews from the GENART and Security directorates. The operational directorate review is still pending.
*   **Registries Draft:**  A proposal to split the current Registries content into multiple documents for clarity was discussed. This includes the primary Datum Architecture draft and its relationship to the current Registries document, as well as the disposition of other related documents (DPA HTTP, DIA HTTP, registry HTTP Dia rdap, registry Epp).
*   **External Liaison:**  Continued efforts to establish contact points at ICAO and ASTM to facilitate code point assignment and overall coordination.  The IAB is generally in charge of liaisons and an email is usually sufficient.
*   **ASTM/FAA Update:**  ASTM published f-3411-22a, explicitly acknowledging DRIP. The FAA's means of compliance approval has additional tamper resistance requirements.
*   **Implementation Updates:** Andre presented implementation updates including a reference architecture compatible with the drafts. They also encountered some issues during the Hackathon.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Authentication Draft:** The chairs will assess comments received after the second last call and determine next steps.
*   **Registries Draft:**  The working group agreed to proceed with the proposed restructuring. The chairs will discuss and decide with Danielle which documents will be adopted for development, starting with the Datum Architecture document. The status track of the Registries document will be changed from proposed standard into informational.
*   **Liaison:** Forward emails from ICAO and ASTM contacts to the chairs. Eric and Matt to discuss next steps for submitting registry requests.
*   **Registries document restructure:** Adam will work with Eric and Matt to determine the best path for splitting and submitting the documents.

## Next Steps

*   Address the comments from the second last call of the authentication draft.
*   Finalize the restructuring of the Registries draft and submit to IESG.
*   Continue efforts to obtain code points from ICAO for Sam Types.
*   Monitor and respond to developments from ASTM and FAA regarding remote ID requirements.
```