<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="manet.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF115-MANET-20221110-1530">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 10 Nov 2022 15:30</p>
<h1>manet</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The MANET working group session at IETF 115 covered the status of existing drafts, specifically those related to credit-based flow control, and discussed potential re-chartering options. Key discussion points included merging existing drafts, adopting individual drafts, and the future of multicast routing. A presentation on the dtn management architecture (dtnma) was given. The possibility of incorporating Babel maintenance into the MANET charter was also discussed.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Credit-based flow control drafts:</strong> Status update on the four drafts, transport area review, and remaining open issues. A proposal to merge data item definitions into the credit extension documents to simplify the traffic classification draft was debated and ultimately rejected.</li>
<li><strong>Individual Phi-related drafts:</strong> Plan to conduct adoption calls for each of the three drafts.</li>
<li><strong>Joint session with Babel and ROLL:</strong> Discussion of takeaways, including confusion about packet detection and potential work on multicast in MANET environments with gateways.</li>
<li><strong>DTN Management Architecture (dtnma):</strong> Presentation by Sarah Heiner on the dtnma, focusing on autonomy, asynchronous behavior, and compact encodings. Discussion on the relationship between dtnma and existing management protocols like SNMP, netconf, and core conf, as well as potential integration with YANG models.</li>
<li><strong>Re-chartering:</strong> Discussion of potential re-chartering options, including d-lab maintenance, multicast routing, and collaboration with the DTN working group on dtnma. The possibility of incorporating Babel maintenance was raised. Concerns about lack of recent activity and the need for active work to justify maintaining the working group were expressed.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Credit-based flow control drafts:</strong> Stick with the current arrangement of having separate documents for traffic classification and credit extensions, and proceed with routing area review.</li>
<li><strong>Individual Phi-related drafts:</strong> Conduct adoption calls for each of the three drafts on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Joint session with Babel and ROLL:</strong> Chair to follow up with the ROLL and Babel chairs to see if there are any common actions to be taken.</li>
<li><strong>AODVv2:</strong> AD to follow up on status</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to address the few remaining issues with the credit-based flow control drafts and submit them for routing area review.</li>
<li>Chair to initiate adoption calls for the individual Phi-related drafts on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Chair to discuss potential collaboration and re-chartering options with the IESG and the working group on the mailing list.</li>
<li>MANET Participants should provide input to the MANET chairs for the rechartering discussion to continue on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
