<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="moq.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF115-MOQ-20221110-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 10 Nov 2022 09:30</p>
<h1>moq</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This was the first official meeting of the moq working group at an IETF plenary.  The agenda included reports from the interim meeting, presentations on the combined rush/warp/quickR proposal and relays, and a discussion about a potential interim meeting. Key discussions revolved around media encoding, congestion control, prioritization, relay functionality, and security considerations.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Media Encoding &amp; Dependencies:</strong> Discussion on different encoding schemes (I-frames, P-frames, B-frames) and their impact on latency and prioritization.  The importance of respecting encoding dependencies over the network was emphasized.</li>
<li><strong>Congestion Control &amp; Prioritization:</strong>  The interplay between congestion control and rate control was discussed.  The need for application-level prioritization to inform packet dropping decisions during congestion was a recurring theme. Discussion on differentiating local queue prioritization from marking packets for network prioritization.</li>
<li><strong>Rush/Warp/QuickR Combined Proposal:</strong> Luke presented the combined draft, highlighting the concept of segments (any number of frames per stream), delivery order, and dependencies written on the wire for relay support.  Different approaches to segmenting media were explored.</li>
<li><strong>Relays:</strong>  Colin presented on relay functionality, focusing on the need to provide relays with sufficient information (envelope data) to make intelligent forwarding and dropping decisions without inspecting the payload.  Discussions on priority, dependency indication, caching, security, and privacy aspects of relays. Multicast Quick was brought up as potentially helpful.</li>
<li><strong>Use Cases and Requirements:</strong> A discussion on the progress of the use cases and requirements document.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>GitHub for Document Management:</strong> Confirmed usage of GitHub for document management.</li>
<li><strong>Slack Bridge:</strong> Working on setting up a bridge for Slack to retain messages. WG discussions should not occur on Slack until that happens.</li>
<li><strong>Interim Meeting:</strong> The working group will investigate the feasibility of an in-person interim meeting in late January 2023 on the U.S. West Coast. Chairs will come up with a suggestion to the list.</li>
<li><strong>Call for Adoption:</strong>  A call for adoption on the use cases and requirements document will be issued after further discussion on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Luke to review chat transcript for additional issues raised.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list regarding prioritization schemes, dependency handling, relay functionality, media formats, and congestion control algorithms.</li>
<li>Define the agenda for the potential interim meeting based on mailing list discussions and available drafts.</li>
<li>Further develop the combined rush/warp/quickR draft, focusing on wire format definition and CDN support.</li>
<li>Explore potential synergies with the Quick, WebTransport, and other relevant working groups (IETF and W3C).</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
