**Session Date/Time:** 08 Nov 2022 09:30

# netmod

## Summary

The NETMOD working group meeting covered a range of topics, including document updates, liaison statements, and discussions on YANG versioning, Access Control Lists (ACLs), and modeling challenges. Key discussions revolved around adoption of new drafts, resolution of open issues, and exploration of meta-models for advanced solutions.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Document Updates:**
    *   Discussion on post-last call documents regarding interface extensions.
    *   Update on the Syslog model, with a plan to open a new last call after addressing feasibility comments.
    *   Status of the Node Tags document and its readiness to move forward after addressing comments.
    *   Open issue on 6991 and a proposal to address it by deprecating `IP address` with Zone and adding a new explicit version.
*   **Oran Liaison:** Update on the incoming liaison from Oran and the ongoing work to formulate a response.
*   **Interface Extensions:** Scott Mansfield presented the status of the Interface Extensions YANG and Sub-interface VLAN YANG drafts, highlighting the need for author input and access to the GitHub repository.
*   **YANG Extension and Annotation for Immutable Flag:** Presentation on defining a standard mechanism to document immutable configuration data, prompting a discussion on its practicality and potential overlap with SNMP.
*   **Policy-Based Nano Access Control:** Discussion on the Policy-Based Nano Access Control draft, focusing on the resolution of user groups and the implementation of access control policies.
*   **ACL Model Extensions:** Oscar presented proposed extensions to the ACL model, covering prefix sets, TCP flags, fragment handling, and rate limiting, sparking discussions on augmentation approaches and placement of defined sets.
*   **YANG Versioning:** Discussion on the progress of YANG versioning efforts, with a focus on module versioning and YANG simver, including per-node compatibility indicators and handling of revision or derive imports.
*   **Modeling Challenges:** Nigel Davis presented challenges in modeling advanced solutions, particularly regarding partial visibility and intention, proposing the concept of "occurrence" and the need for extended meta-models.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **6991 Update:** Add IP address with Zone and deprecate the existing IP address field, similarly for date and time.
*   **Interface Extensions:** Scott Mansfield to be granted access to the GitHub repository to update drafts.
*   **Immutable Flag:** Additional information to be provided in the draft regarding what is not possible with existing mechanisms, and why a new mechanism is needed.
*   **ACL Model Extensions:**
    *   Consider incorporating grouping into the model for use in other models.
    *   Investigate aligning the rate limit action with the QOS YANG model.
*   **YANG Versioning:** Authors to address comments regarding revision or derive import.
*   **YANG Versioning and Yang Simver:** Authors to send a message to the list when both documents are ready for a second last call.
*   **Modeling Challenges:** Discuss the more detailed cases with related properties.

## Next Steps

*   Continue working on document updates, addressing open issues, and responding to list feedback.
*   Schedule a second working group last call for module versioning and YANG simver after author coordination.
*   Further explore the modeling challenges and potential meta-model extensions, possibly collaborating with other working groups or experts.
