<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="pals.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF115-PALS-20221109-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 09 Nov 2022 09:30</p>
<h1>pals</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This was a joint session of the PALS, MPLS, and DetNet working groups at IETF 115, focusing on MPLS support for new applications. The discussion centered around the MPLS Network Actions (MNA) framework, requirements, and encoding, as well as DetNet drafts. A major point of discussion was the complexity being introduced into MPLS and how to manage the new MNA solutions, especially regarding non-IP payloads and the ordering of network actions.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>MNA Open Design Team Report:</strong> Updates on use cases, requirements, and framework documents. A key issue is converging on a solution for packet encodings and handling non-IP payloads. The team agreed a solution should give a deterministic explicit order of network actions, which was added to the framework document. There was a good participation in the weekly meetings.</li>
<li><strong>MNA Requirements:</strong> Discussion about the requirements document and addressing previous comments. Agreement that new requirements might need to be added depending on the outcome of the discussion on support for non-IP payloads with M A.</li>
<li><strong>MNA Header Encodings (Jags Draft):</strong> Presentation of a solution for MNA encoding format carried in the MPLS label stack. Questions about the Network Action Sub Stack format and the &quot;order bit&quot;. Concerns were raised about the complexity of the solution.</li>
<li><strong>IOAM Encapsulation in MPLS:</strong> Discussion on the use of MPLS encapsulation for IOAM data fields, leveraging the MNA framework.</li>
<li><strong>DetNet BFD Extension for Remote Defect Indication (RDI):</strong> Presentation of a draft extending BFD to indicate DetNet-specific defects. There was skepticism if BFD is a good fit, pointing to prior conclusion that it is not an appropriate use for BFD. There was a suggestion to work with Greg Mirsky on alternative.</li>
<li><strong>DetNet Ability Discovery:</strong> Presentation on objects to discover the dynamic capabilities of relay nodes, focusing on service protection functions.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>MNA Open Design Team:</strong> To continue open design team meetings on Thursdays, focusing on reaching a consensus on how to handle non-IP payloads within an MNA-enabled LSP. The chairs will have a coordination meeting on Tuesday and send out an invite for that.</li>
<li><strong>MNA Requirements Document:</strong> Editors to review and potentially refine the requirements based on the non-IP payload discussion.</li>
<li><strong>Jags Draft:</strong> Authors to address comments and questions, particularly regarding the use of the &quot;order bit&quot; and alignment with the MNA framework. Also the issues and comments around the non-IP payload need to be considered.</li>
<li><strong>IOAM Encapsulation:</strong> Further discussion needed on the applicability of different IOAM modes to the MPLS data plane, especially regarding incremental mode. Working group adoption dependent on adoption of Jags.</li>
<li><strong>DetNet BFD Extension:</strong> Authors to consider feedback regarding the suitability of BFD for DetNet RDI and explore alternative solutions.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors of MNA solutions should converge.</li>
<li>Authors to revisit requirements.</li>
<li>Continue discussions within the Open Design Team.</li>
<li>Shares have a coordination meeting on Tuesday.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
