**Session Date/Time:** 08 Nov 2022 15:00

# rift

## Summary

The rift session at IETF 115 covered updates on the base specification, KV registry, flood reflection, and a presentation on leaf rings without Northbound neighbors. Key discussions revolved around the applicability and implementation of these specifications, especially the leaf rings proposal.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Rift Specification Update:** Jordan provided an update on the base specification, highlighting clarifications, SVG alignment, IANA considerations, and editorial changes.
*   **KV Registry Update:** Minor edits due to Shepherd review, with IANA requiring upper bounds for some values.
*   **Flood Reflection Update:** Added a role for spine nodes and telemetry key-value ties to carry state for ISIS adjacency.
*   **Auto FR & LSR Coordination:** Discussion about the presentation of Auto FR in the LSR working group, clarifying its purpose and lack of modification to ISIS itself.
*   **Leaf Rings without Northbound Neighbors:** Cindy presented a draft addressing scenarios where leaf nodes lack Northbound connectivity. Tony raised concerns about addressing a corner case and the need to avoid re-flooding Southbound ties. DTP was discussed as a potential solution for convergence and the use of prefix redistribution.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **KV Registry:** Jordan to address IANA's feedback regarding upper bounds for certain values in the next version.
*   **Auto FR Adoption:** Defer adoption of Flood Reflection update until the retardering discussion is resolved.
*   **Leaf Rings without Northbound Neighbors:** Cindy to consider the suggestions made during the discussion, especially prefix redistribution, and evaluate performance against a standard Rift deployment. Cindy will analyze the applicability of the proposed solution and implementation differences.
*   **Rings deployment and Convergence:** Discuss rings deployment consideration after the IETF and potential implementation in a separate draft

## Next Steps

*   Cindy will initiate email exchanges to follow-up on the ring deployment considerations
*   Explore the possibility of including rings support in a new rift charter by the chairs and continue discussion.
*   Involve Katara team(Tommaso et al.) in the performance testing and convergence analysis of Rings related deployment.
