**Session Date/Time:** 08 Nov 2022 15:00

# roll

## Summary

The ROLL working group meeting covered the status of several drafts, including NSA extension, variable priority, mopex, and fast-forward rotary class detection in RPL. Pascal provided updates on the Dow projection draft and the work on 6LoWPAN multicast registration and prefix registration. The meeting also discussed future work, including RPLv2 and management issues.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **NSA Extension:** The authors are still working on addressing major comments from the AD review. A revised draft is needed before it can be sent to the IESG.
*   **Variable Priority:** Version 15 was published, addressing some reviewer comments, but Pascal's review identified unresolved issues. The group will follow up.
*   **Foreign Priority:**  Seven issues are currently open. Michael Richardson will address them.
*   **MOPEX:** This draft is also considered long-standing and needs to be revived.
*   **Fast-Forward Rotary Class Detection in RPL:** Michael Richardson is the document shepherd. The group discussed the algorithm and sentinel behavior to determine root crash detection.
*   **Dow Projection:** Resolved looping concerns with text and partial order and the use of tracks and segments within an RPL instance rib. The group confirmed the document is ready for publication. Howell confirmed loop avoidance fixes.
*   **6LoWPAN Multicast Registration:** Discussed extending RFC 9010 to multicast and anycast addresses. Addressed using two bits in the error option and message. A new registry may be needed.
*   **Prefix Registration:** This new extension allows Ripple unaware devices to advertise prefixes for redistribution within the Ripple network.  Consideration is needed on how to handle prefix duplicate address detection and claiming. New message or NS/NA with error option is to be discussed.
*   **Terminology:** Clarification on terminology for LLN nodes and 6LoWPAN nodes was suggested, aiming for harmonization across working groups.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **NSA Extension:** Authors to provide a revised draft as soon as possible.
*   **Variable Priority:** Pascal to confirm if version 15 addresses his comments. Authors to fix remaining items if necessary.
*   **Foreign Priority:** Michael Richardson to work on the seven open issues.
*   **Dow Projection:** The working group agrees that it is ready for publication. Pascal needs to shepherd the document.
*   **6LoWPAN Prefix Registration:** Chairs to track the draft and ensure coordination with the 6LoWPAN working group.
*   **Reviewers:** Seek reviewers on the mailing list for the 6LoWPAN prefix registration draft.

## Next Steps

*   Plan for a virtual interim meeting to allow more time for focused discussions.
*   Start working on addressing the management issue of RPL routers.
*   Consider putting together a RPLv2 specification.

