<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="snac.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF115-SNAC-20221110-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 10 Nov 2022 09:30</p>
<h1>snac</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The first official SNAC (Stub Network Auto-Configuration for IPv6) working group meeting focused on discussing the basic functionality of stub network connectivity. The meeting covered the charter, existing drafts, and potential next steps. Key topics included the adoption of Ted Lemon's draft, the inclusion of DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation (PD), and the role of NAT64. Pascal's prefix registration proposal was also presented.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Adoption of Ted Lemon's draft:</strong> There was broad support for adopting Ted Lemon's draft as a working group document, contingent on including DHCPv6 PD.</li>
<li><strong>DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation (PD):</strong> Strong consensus emerged regarding the importance of incorporating DHCPv6 PD into the base specification to ensure connectivity in IPv6-only environments. Several participants emphasized the need for a state machine to handle DHCPv6 PD discovery and management.</li>
<li><strong>NAT64:</strong> While there were initial concerns about the complexity of NAT64, the group generally agreed that it's a necessary component for providing internet connectivity to stub network hosts, particularly for accessing IPv4-only services. Some suggested exploring alternatives, but the consensus remained that NAT64 should be included, keeping it as simple as possible.</li>
<li><strong>Problem Statement Document:</strong> The need for a separate problem statement document was discussed. It was generally agreed that the problem is well understood and that the problem statement can be integrated into the main document.</li>
<li><strong>Pascal's Prefix Registration Proposal:</strong> Pascal presented a proposal for prefix registration using modified ND messages, drawing on work in 6LoWPAN. This sparked discussion about its potential applicability for routing and network management, particularly in industrial IoT scenarios.</li>
<li><strong>Reachability:</strong> More detail may be required regarding what to put into Router Advertisements (RAs).</li>
<li><strong>Integration with Infrastructure:</strong> Integration with cooperating infrastructure was identified as crucial to stub network host discoverability and reachability.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> The working group will adopt Ted Lemon's draft as a working group document.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Ted Lemon will update the draft to include a section on DHCPv6 PD, including at least one line of support to be defined.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> The Working Group Chairs will call for adoption of the new revision of the draft, with the DHCPv6 section, in the coming days via the mailing list.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>The updated draft including DHCPv6 PD will be circulated on the mailing list for review and further discussion.</li>
<li>The Working Group will continue to evaluate Pascal's prefix registration proposal and explore its potential integration with stub network functionality.</li>
<li>The Working Group will begin working on the second deliverable as defined in the charter, to cover the complex use cases, as participants volunteer to author and/or edit the document.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
