<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="uuidrev.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF115-UUIDREV-20221108-1630">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 08 Nov 2022 16:30</p>
<h1>uuidrev</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The uuidrev meeting focused on discussing the current state of the uuidrev document (draft-00), outlining planned changes for draft-01, and addressing open issues. Key topics included Errata fixes, table of contents restructuring, handling of name spaces for version 3 uuids, addressing security concerns around random number generation, aligning with ITU and ISO standards, and future meeting schedules.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Errata Fixes:</strong> Discussion on the process of fixing Errata, specifically focusing on grammatical errors and clarifying bit/byte order. Consensus that the current draft attempts to address the majority of Errata.</li>
<li><strong>Table of Contents:</strong> The updated table of contents in the current draft was received positively.</li>
<li><strong>Version 3, 4 and 5 Refactoring:</strong> Algorithms were reworked into the specific layout section for version 3,4 and 5.</li>
<li><strong>Namespace Handling:</strong> Discussion around adding new namespaces for version 3 uuids, particularly for IoT devices and databases. Issues around inconsistent implementation of existing namespaces and the need to document how namespaces are generated were raised.</li>
<li><strong>Random Number Generation:</strong> Concern about exhausting random entropy sources in hardware trng and best practices.</li>
<li><strong>OID handling:</strong> Discussion around the use of uuids as OIDs and vice versa and the need to clearly document the encoding of OIDs.</li>
<li><strong>Max UUID:</strong> Issue of the Maxi UUID encroaching on the reserved variant space.</li>
<li><strong>Alignment with ITU and ISO:</strong> Discussion on the need to align the uuidrev document with ITU-T X.667 and ISO/IEC 9834-8, including potential liaison efforts. Difficulty arises from ISO documents residing behind paywalls.</li>
<li><strong>BCP 14 Keywords:</strong> Need to review and revise usage of MUST, SHOULD, and MAY to ensure clarity and consistency. Replacing &quot;should not&quot; with &quot;must not&quot; in specific instance.</li>
<li><strong>Internet Standard elevation:</strong> Discussed process to elevate from proposed standard to internet standard.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Kaiser to investigate and correct the ABNF definition for <code>hex octet</code>.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Brendan to forward the documentation on namespace generation (suit manifest draft) to Kaiser.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Brendan to propose text regarding random number generation best practices and potential issues with hardware trng.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Kaiser to update the namespace registration template to follow RFC 8141 and move into the Ayana consideration section.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Kaiser to ask the question about version 7 and 8 changes on the mailing list to ensure proper coverage.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Kaiser to take the discussion about the Maxi UUID and variant field byte level definition to the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Chairs to help facilitate Liaisons with ITU and ISO regarding UUID standardization.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Kaiser to add a section to draft-01 about the use of UUIDs as OIDs, referencing ITU-T X.667.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Revisit all SHOULD statements in the document to determine if they are truly SHOULDs or if they should be MUSTs or MAYs, providing justification for each.</li>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> Virtual interim meetings will occur in early December, mid-January and mid-February.</li>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> Upcoming changes should be proposed in small pull requests</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Kaiser to implement the discussed changes and release draft-01 by the end of the month.</li>
<li>Schedule the virtual interim meetings based on the Rally poll results.</li>
<li>Address the Maxi UUID and variant table issue on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
