**Session Date/Time:** 08 Nov 2022 16:30

# uuidrev

## Summary

The uuidrev meeting focused on discussing the current state of the uuidrev document (draft-00), outlining planned changes for draft-01, and addressing open issues. Key topics included Errata fixes, table of contents restructuring, handling of name spaces for version 3 uuids, addressing security concerns around random number generation, aligning with ITU and ISO standards, and future meeting schedules.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Errata Fixes:** Discussion on the process of fixing Errata, specifically focusing on grammatical errors and clarifying bit/byte order. Consensus that the current draft attempts to address the majority of Errata.
*   **Table of Contents:** The updated table of contents in the current draft was received positively.
*   **Version 3, 4 and 5 Refactoring:** Algorithms were reworked into the specific layout section for version 3,4 and 5.
*   **Namespace Handling:** Discussion around adding new namespaces for version 3 uuids, particularly for IoT devices and databases. Issues around inconsistent implementation of existing namespaces and the need to document how namespaces are generated were raised.
*   **Random Number Generation:** Concern about exhausting random entropy sources in hardware trng and best practices.
*   **OID handling:** Discussion around the use of uuids as OIDs and vice versa and the need to clearly document the encoding of OIDs.
*   **Max UUID:** Issue of the Maxi UUID encroaching on the reserved variant space.
*   **Alignment with ITU and ISO:** Discussion on the need to align the uuidrev document with ITU-T X.667 and ISO/IEC 9834-8, including potential liaison efforts. Difficulty arises from ISO documents residing behind paywalls.
*   **BCP 14 Keywords:** Need to review and revise usage of MUST, SHOULD, and MAY to ensure clarity and consistency. Replacing "should not" with "must not" in specific instance.
*   **Internet Standard elevation:** Discussed process to elevate from proposed standard to internet standard.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Action Item:** Kaiser to investigate and correct the ABNF definition for `hex octet`.
*   **Action Item:** Brendan to forward the documentation on namespace generation (suit manifest draft) to Kaiser.
*   **Action Item:** Brendan to propose text regarding random number generation best practices and potential issues with hardware trng.
*   **Action Item:** Kaiser to update the namespace registration template to follow RFC 8141 and move into the Ayana consideration section.
*   **Action Item:** Kaiser to ask the question about version 7 and 8 changes on the mailing list to ensure proper coverage.
*   **Action Item:** Kaiser to take the discussion about the Maxi UUID and variant field byte level definition to the mailing list.
*   **Action Item:** Chairs to help facilitate Liaisons with ITU and ISO regarding UUID standardization.
*   **Action Item:** Kaiser to add a section to draft-01 about the use of UUIDs as OIDs, referencing ITU-T X.667.
*   **Action Item:** Revisit all SHOULD statements in the document to determine if they are truly SHOULDs or if they should be MUSTs or MAYs, providing justification for each.
*   **Decision:** Virtual interim meetings will occur in early December, mid-January and mid-February.
*   **Decision:** Upcoming changes should be proposed in small pull requests

## Next Steps

*   Kaiser to implement the discussed changes and release draft-01 by the end of the month.
*   Schedule the virtual interim meetings based on the Rally poll results.
*   Address the Maxi UUID and variant table issue on the mailing list.
