**Session Date/Time:** 24 Jul 2024 20:00

# 6lo

## Summary
The 6lo working group meeting covered several key drafts, including IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Prefix Registration, Path-Aware Semantic Addressing (PASA) for LLNs, Generic Address Assignment Option (GAO), Transmission of SHIC Compressed Packets over 15.4 Networks, and IPv6 over Short-Range Optical Wireless Communication. Discussions focused on charter compliance, routing vs. addressing, SHIC architecture alignment, and draft updates based on early reviews. The GAO draft received enough support for adoption, pending confirmation on the mailing list.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Prefix Registration (Pascal):**
    *   Addressed reviews from Dave and Dan.
    *   Debated the need for multicast prefix registration.
    *   Concerns raised by Eric Vink regarding charter fit (routing vs. addressing); will be discussed with John Scudder.
    *   Coordination with SNAC (Simple Negotiation of Addresses) was discussed, specifically the 'F' flag.
*   **Path-Aware Semantic Addressing (PASA) for LLNs (Luigi):**
    *   Addressed reviews from Paul Kizivat and Joel Alpernd.
    *   Clarified the purpose of PASA and its relationship to routing protocols like RPL.
    *   Concerns raised by Eric Vink regarding charter fit (routing vs. addressing).
    *   Discussion on standard track vs. experimental status.
*   **Generic Address Assignment Option (GAO) (Luigi):**
    *   Improved clarity in message sequences.
    *   Text reorganized around explicit request and optional confirmation phases.
    *   Discussion of reboot scenarios and message exchange optimization.
*   **Transmission of SHIC Compressed Packets over 15.4 Networks (Carlos):**
    *   Aligned with the latest developments in the SHIC architecture draft.
    *   Introduced the concepts of SHIC stratum and discriminator.
    *   Discussed single and multiple instance networks and their implications for header compression and routing.
    *   Addressed IANA considerations and security implications (specifically related to Pro).
*   **IPv6 over Short-Range Optical Wireless Communication (Younghwan Choi):**
    *   Discussed updates related to SCHC compression.
    *   Defined a new 6LoWPAN capability bit in ICIR/6CIO for SCHC support.
    *   Addressed a minor IANA review comment and added relevant references.
    *   Question about choice of bit position for new flag.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **GAO Draft Adoption:** The working group expressed support for adopting the GAO draft based on a show of hands (7 yes, 0 no, 3 no opinion). Confirmation will be sought on the mailing list.
    *   **Action Item:** Chairs to confirm adoption on the mailing list.
*   **IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Prefix Registration:**
    *   **Action Item:** Pascal to address Dave's remaining review points and publish a new revision.
    *   **Action Item:** Pascal to discuss charter compliance with John Scudder and clarify the distinction between routing and addressing.
    *   **Action Item:** Pascal to revisit SNAC and present the draft with emphasis on F-flag and discuss with snack mailing list.
*   **Path-Aware Semantic Addressing (PASA) for LLNs:**
     *   **Action Item:** Luigi to discuss with Joel and clarify reasonable status for this document.

## Next Steps

*   Address outstanding review comments for the individual drafts.
*   Continue discussions on the mailing list regarding charter compliance, adoption of the GAO draft, and other open issues.
