<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="alldispatch.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF120-ALLDISPATCH-20240722-1630">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 22 Jul 2024 16:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># alldispatch

## Summary

The alldispatch session covered a variety of topics, ranging from registry policies and IANA registration processes to gender representation in the NOMCOM and mailing list moderation.  The session aimed to direct work to the appropriate IETF venues.  Decisions were made regarding the need for working groups, AD sponsorship, or further discussion on mailing lists. The session concluded with a request for feedback on the combined dispatch format.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Registry Policies (Karsten):**  Discussed the need for a mechanism to combine expert review with IETF review in registry policies, going beyond conditional policies in BCP 26 (RFC 8126).  The existing RFC is viewed as insufficient.
*   **Hybrid IANA Registrations (John Klensin):** Addressed tensions in registries between easy registration for all uses and getting good community/expert advice.  Argued for a working group to review and update the base document (8126).
*   **Gender Representation in NOMCOM (Mallory):** Proposed extending the limit on non-NOMCOM representation by company to improve gender diversity.  Concerns were raised about potentially narrowing the pool of volunteers.
*   **List Management Procedures (Elliot):**  Addressed the need to update BCP 83 due to its limitations and painful public review process. Two drafts were presented, one covering all IETF participation channels and the other focusing on plenary lists.
*   **Experimental RFCs (Adrian Farrel):**  Discussed the need for better guidance on describing protocol experiments in RFCs, beyond just stating &quot;experimental.&quot;
*   **Milestones (David Schinazi):**  Presented a draft proposing that milestones in working groups be optional and dates be optional, putting control in the hands of the responsible AD.
*   **Authenticating Ideas Encapsulation Header (Lyndon):**  Sought feedback on where to discuss the proposed authentication header for traffic steering in cloud backbones. Security concerns were raised.
*   **Half-URI Scheme (Sony):**  Presented a scheme to remove user info from URIs, citing security and inconsistency issues. The problem definition was questioned.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Registry Policies &amp; Hybrid IANA Registrations:** Create a new working group to address both topics and update BCP 26. Murray volunteered to work on a charter.
*   **Gender Representation in NOMCOM:** Create a working group dedicated to addressing gender diversity in the NOMCOM and potentially leadership positions.
*   **List Management Procedures:** Create a working group to address list moderation procedures.  The IESG is prepared to move fast and offer interim boff.
*   **Experimental RFCs:** Create a dedicated mailing list to further discuss the topic.
*   **Milestones:** AD sponsorship. Create a dedicated mailing list to discuss the details and get broader community consensus
*   **Authenticating Ideas Encapsulation Header:** Create a dedicated mailing list to discuss the topic further in the security area.
*   **Half-URI Scheme:** Needs more discussion on the WIT general list to socialize and discuss to understand better before deciding on how to proceed.

## Next Steps

*   Murray to work on a charter for the new working group on registry policies and IANA registration.
*   Establish mailing lists for Experimental RFCs and Authenticating Ideas Encapsulation Header
*   IESG to collect feedback on the combined dispatch format.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
