<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="ccamp.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF120-CCAMP-20240726-1630">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 26 Jul 2024 16:30</p>
<h1>ccamp</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The CCAMP working group meeting at IETF 120 in Vancouver covered various ongoing efforts related to optical network modeling, management, and control. Presentations included updates on optical impairment topology models, DWDM interface management, WDM tunnel modeling, pluggable optics use cases and modeling, transport network northbound interfaces (TNBI), and fine-grained OTN (FGOTN) modeling and control. The group discussed document adoption and identified action items for the coming weeks.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Optical Impairment Topology and RFC1993bis:</strong> Discussion focused on the readiness of both documents for working group last call, with a remaining issue related to layer 0/layer 1 boundaries in RFC1993bis.</li>
<li><strong>DWDM Interface Draft:</strong>  Updates included redundancy removal and parameter realignment with other key drafts (optical impairment and RFC1993bis). Need to submit to Young Doctor Review.</li>
<li><strong>WDM Tunnel Modeling:</strong>  Updates included alignment with base T tunnel model and addressing the relationship between TLSPs and optical media channels. Concerns were raised about a complex model and suggestions were made to align it with the Optical Path Computation work.</li>
<li><strong>Pluggable Optics:</strong> Two presentations covered both use cases and modelling aspects. Need to add security considerations. Discussion around inventories, capabilities database.</li>
<li><strong>Transport Network Northbound Interface (TNBI):</strong> Update focused on inventory and multilayer topology management with a focus on harmonization of terminology between SDOs and toolings for JSON conversion. Discussion of how to resolve an issue with the OTN topology document.</li>
<li><strong>Fine-Grained OTN (FGOTN):</strong> Presentations covered young models, GMPS &amp; PCE applicability and applicability to challenge networks.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>IPR Polling &amp; Last Call:</strong> Chairs will trigger IPR polling for RFC9193bis and optical impairment topology drafts after the IETF meeting, with the intention to proceed to working group last call shortly after.</li>
<li><strong>Pluggable Optics Adoption:</strong> Polling for the adoption of the pluggable optics use case draft will be followed up on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>TNBI issue with OTN Topology document:</strong> The group needs to decide if the OTN Topology document needs to return to the WG due to design team findings.</li>
<li><strong>Weekly Meetings:</strong>  Attendees were encouraged to participate in ongoing weekly calls for various topics (Flexi-grid, microwave, OTN slicing, etc.).</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Draft Updates:</strong> Authors to address open issues, incorporate feedback, and prepare updated drafts.</li>
<li><strong>Mailing List:</strong> Continue discussions, provide summaries of advancements, and seek consensus on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>IPR Process:</strong> Draft authors and contributors to be prepared to respond to IPR inquiries.</li>
<li><strong>Working Group Last Call:</strong>  Prepare documents for working group last call as appropriate.</li>
<li><strong>Wiki &amp; Code Publication:</strong> The TNBI team will publish how they use different models, how they generated the JSON what tooling they've used on GitHub.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
