<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="detnet.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF120-DETNET-20240723-1630">Recording 1</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF120-DETNET-20240725-2000">Recording 2</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 23 Jul 2024 16:30</p>
<h1>detnet Meeting Minutes</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This meeting covered several DETNET working group documents and related topics. Discussions included progress updates, open issues, and future directions. The main topics were: Raw Architecture, multi-domain extensions, Taxonomy of Data Plane Solutions, C-Score, ED Decarboning, Tiga for, Deterministic Networking for Industrial Operations, and using SRv6 for pre-off functionality in the detnet data plane.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Raw Architecture:</strong> Rescoping to focus on local domains and tunnels within the DetNet umbrella was discussed. The need to address prior comments before last call was emphasized.</li>
<li><strong>Multi-Domain Extensions:</strong> The presentation focused on updates to the multi-domain extensions draft, aiming to broaden the scope from wireless to wire domains. Participants discussed the need to clarify specific data plane solutions and distinguish between inter-domain and multi-domain scenarios.</li>
<li><strong>Taxonomy of Data Plane Solutions:</strong> The discussion centered around the inclusion of reference topologies for evaluating data plane solutions, the need to clarify the characteristics of CNC flows. Unresolved comments from the previous meeting were noted.</li>
<li><strong>C-Score:</strong> The draft is considered stable, and the future plan is to evaluate it with reference topologies from the taxonomy draft.</li>
<li><strong>ED Decarboning:</strong> The update covered enhancements with two-tier schedulers, policing and ingress considerations, and frequency synchronization considerations.</li>
<li><strong>Tiga for:</strong> The draft has been split into two documents (data plane and control plane). BTM/BOMO and timestamp extensions were highlighted, along with encapsulation methods using time-slot ID stacks. Updates on other working groups was requested for further presentations.</li>
<li><strong>Deterministic Networking for Industrial Operations:</strong> This draft discusses the usage of deterministic networks for industry operations and control, focusing on the UNI. A data plane agnostic approach with potential API formats was discussed, along with existing projects that can be leveraged for future testing.</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 for Pre-Off Functionality:</strong> A new DetNet data plane using SRv6 was presented, covering the definition of a new seed format, flow ID and sequence number placement, and SID behaviors. The presentation resulted in discussions about the existing SRV6 working group's related documents, flow label usage, seed compression, and a variety of possible extensions.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Raw Architecture:</strong> Pascal to review and address outstanding comments, including those from November. Send a notification to the list that it has been done, so comment-makers can review.</li>
<li><strong>Multi-Domain Extensions:</strong> Carlos to incorporate comments from the session into the next update, particularly regarding the Control Plane Framework. Additionally he must review the Raw Architecture to make sure that inter-domain issues are captured.</li>
<li><strong>Taxonomy of Data Plane Solutions:</strong> Genu to address comments from IETF 119 in parallel with soliciting more reference topologies.</li>
<li><strong>Deterministic Networking for Industrial Operations:</strong> Investigate related protocols such as RSVP for traffic engineering and carry specifications of flows.</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 for Pre-Off Functionality:</strong> Authors to evaluate differences between this and the replication seed, and explore how they can be combined.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list to confirm working group consensus.</li>
<li>Presentations on topics will be continued on Thursday.</li>
<li>Authors to work on action items and incorporate feedback into revised drafts.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 25 Jul 2024 20:00</p>
<h1>detnet</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This was the second detnet session at IETF 120. The session included presentations on flow aggregation for enhanced detnet, a framework for traffic engineering in enhanced detnet, and MPLS network action for deterministic latency. The discussion focused on clarifying requirements, identifying gaps in existing documents, and coordinating with other working groups.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Flow Aggregation for Enhanced Detnet:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The draft proposes objectives, requirements, and principles for flow aggregation, applying them to 5GS.</li>
<li>Concerns were raised about interleaving and the need for large-scale detnet support within 5G.</li>
<li>The presenter was encouraged to refine the document to highlight specific gaps in current detnet definitions.</li>
<li>The document may not be a standards-track deliverable.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Framework for Traffic Engineering in Enhanced Detnet:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The draft presents a framework for traffic engineering to achieve data accusing in detnet.</li>
<li>The presenter was encouraged to provide specific text suggestions to the controller plane framework document to address gaps related to enhanced detnet, queuing solutions, and inter-domain aspects.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>MPLS Network Action for Deterministic Latency:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The draft proposes an MPLS MNA solution to address scaling requirements for deterministic latency.</li>
<li>Concerns were raised about whether the work aligns with detnet requirements and whether the solution is premature.</li>
<li>The authors were encouraged to clearly define the problem being solved and coordinate with the MPLS working group.</li>
<li>The proposal may be pre-mature and depend on an existing gap assessment that is currently missing.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Flow Aggregation Draft Authors:</strong> Refine the document to clearly highlight the gaps in current detnet definitions and the specific changes being proposed.</li>
<li><strong>Traffic Engineering Framework Draft Authors:</strong> Submit specific text suggestions to the controller plane framework document to address identified gaps.</li>
<li><strong>MPLS Network Action Draft Authors:</strong> Clearly define the problem being solved and coordinate with the MPLS working group. Discuss the requirements within detnet WG and potentially separate the document into requirements and solution components.</li>
<li><strong>Detnet WG chairs:</strong> Coordinate with MPLS WG chairs regarding MPLS network action for deterministic latency.</li>
<li><strong>Detnet WG:</strong> Assess which queuing solutions would be desirable for enchanced determinisic networks before data plan specific discussions.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to revise drafts based on feedback.</li>
<li>Further discussion on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Coordination between working group chairs.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
