<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="emailcore.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF120-EMAILCORE-20240722-2230">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 22 Jul 2024 22:30</p>
<h1>emailcore</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The emailcore working group met to discuss and resolve open issues on the applicability statement document, the last official charter deliverable. The primary focus was on addressing the remaining open issues and preparing the document for a working group last call, with the goal of completing the charter before the next IETF meeting. Discussions covered various topics including DSN SMTP extension, percent encoding of non-ASCII text, received headers, CNAME usage, and empty quoted strings.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Issue 40 (DSN SMTP extension):</strong> Proposed removal of the DSN SMTP extension due to poor implementation. There was discussion about downgrading &quot;must&quot; to &quot;may&quot; and including a comment about the lack of general support. A new issue will be opened for bounce message format standardization.</li>
<li><strong>Issue 78 (Percent encoding of non-ASCII text):</strong> Discussion of clarifying text regarding percent encoding, focusing on discouraging modification of the left-hand side of email addresses. Agreement to shorten and clarify the text.</li>
<li><strong>Internationalization references:</strong> Discussion of adding references to internationalization RFCs.</li>
<li><strong>Received headers:</strong> Review of proposed edits to received header text, particularly concerning disclosure of information and privacy concerns. Discussion on the proper balance between threat intelligence and user privacy, alongside considering legal requirements.</li>
<li><strong>Trace header fields:</strong> Discussion on generalizing a comment about removing unwanted headers when using an existing message as a template. Discussion on the definition of &quot;trace fields&quot;.</li>
<li><strong>De facto format for receipt headers:</strong> Skepticism expressed about documenting a de facto format for received headers due to complexity and potential for frequent changes.</li>
<li><strong>CNAME usage:</strong> Discussion about clarifying the text on verifying and expanding MX record authentication related to CNAMEs. John pointed out the DNS community doesn't have numerical limits for CNAMEs so maybe the mail world shouldn't either. A suggestion was made to discourage use of CNAMEs completely.</li>
<li><strong>SMTPO auth:</strong> Discussion about whether or not to have a reference to SMTPO auth.</li>
<li><strong>Empty quoted strings:</strong> Discussion to revise text related to empty quoted strings to broaden the advice.</li>
<li><strong>Required TLS:</strong> Discussion on incorporating a text reference for required TLS.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Issue 40:</strong> Downgrade DSN SMTP extension from &quot;must&quot; to &quot;may&quot; and include a comment about lack of general support. <strong>ACTION:</strong> Post to the mailing list to verify. Todd to create new issue for bounce message format. Alexei to provide text.</li>
<li><strong>Issue 78:</strong> John Levine will revise text regarding percent encoding to shorten sentences and clarify the example. <strong>ACTION:</strong> John to send revised text to the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Internationalization references:</strong> Double check if the references are already there and either close the issue or add appropriate RFC references. <strong>ACTION:</strong> Unassigned - original issue assignee to check.</li>
<li><strong>Received headers:</strong> Send revised text to the mailing list about disclosure to others of header contents. <strong>ACTION:</strong> Unassigned - original issue assignee to edit based on discussion. Kevin Cox to send text to the notes, perhaps?</li>
<li><strong>Trace header fields:</strong> Generalize the comment about removing unwanted headers when using an existing message as a template. <strong>ACTION:</strong> Pete and (unnamed) to come up with text and do it this week</li>
<li><strong>De facto format for receipt headers:</strong> Close this issue as &quot;won't fix.&quot; or do nothing.</li>
<li><strong>CNAME usage:</strong> Jod Clancy will suggest some text. If people want to propose do counter-proposal on the main list, then we should do that. <strong>ACTION:</strong> Jod Clancy suggest some text. All to propose alternatives on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>SMTPO Auth:</strong> Alexei will either suggest text, or officially withdraw my comment. <strong>ACTION:</strong> Alexei will suggest some text, if I can, then I shut up and then.</li>
<li><strong>Empty quoted strings:</strong> Action Incorporate double dot example as as another thing maybe well it's part of the blending of the two proposals yeah i'll post something to the list and see where it goes</li>
<li><strong>Required TLS:</strong> Jim, raise that on a list and possibly throw some text with it</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Document authors to incorporate agreed-upon changes.</li>
<li>Post updated text to the mailing list for further review.</li>
<li>Plan for working group last call in September, contingent on resolving remaining issues.</li>
<li>Co-chairs should consider appropriateness to drop inactive co-author.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
