**Session Date/Time:** 22 Jul 2024 01:00

```markdown
# Hot RFC Lightning Talks

## Summary

This session featured a series of lightning talks on various "Hot RFC" topics, ranging from the future of SDOs to privacy policies and post-quantum cryptography. Presenters outlined their research, proposed solutions, and sought community input and collaboration.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **SDOs without Standards:** Jean presented a thought experiment about a world where SDOs like the IETF might become less relevant due to advancements in AI and ad-hoc solutions. She questioned the future role of the IETF and whether it should evolve into providing generic regulations for ad-hoc implementations.
*   **Multicast UDP Port Issue:** Stuart (presenting for Nate) discussed the problem of requiring all multicast receivers to use the same UDP port. They proposed a "hack" using two dummy ports for all multicast applications, arguing that the multicast group address already handles demultiplexing.
*   **Responsible DNS Integration:** Swapnil and Andrew discussed the increasing demand for integrating DNS domain names with new applications (blockchains, web3, etc.). They emphasized the need for responsible integration, considering security, reliability, and the domain name lifecycle.
*   **MTL Mode for DNSSEC:** Andrew presented MTL mode as a way to address the issues of large post-quantum signatures in DNSSEC, using Merkel trees to prove membership and binding the roots with a post-quantum signature algorithm.
*   **Authorization Language - Alpha 2.0:** David presented Alpha 2.0, an authorization language intended to simplify and improve upon existing standards like XACML. He highlighted the complexities of authorization and the need for developer-friendly solutions.
*   **Quick TLS Fork:** Rich discussed the motivation for forking the Quick TLS implementation, citing slow contribution acceptance in OpenSSL and the need for broader community involvement and maintenance.
*   **Privacy.txt:** Nick presented privacy.txt, a proposed standard for a machine-readable file containing website privacy policies, contact information, and cookie details. He argued that it could improve transparency and GDPR compliance.
*   **Online Tele-securement:** Pascal presented a project focused on a low-power, high-security personal server using secure elements (Java cards). The server uses a TLS 1.3 profile called TLS-SC with pre-shared keys.
*   **High-Performance Wide Area Network:** First discussed high performance wide area networks for scientific research and data storage, mentioning the use cases need Ultra-high Bandwidth, Ultra-low Packet Loss Ratio, and Low Latency.
*   **IPv6 Performance Comparison:** Si Peng Shio discussed the need to compare IPv6 performance with IPv4 to ensure that IPv6 is actually being used in dual-stack environments. He proposed a testing methodology and sought community contributions.
*   **Digital Emblems:** Bill (remote) discussed digital emblems as a way to digitally represent physical markings required under international law. The goal is to avoid proprietary implementations and ensure interoperability.
*   **Universal Name System and Certificate Authority:** Manu presented the Universal Name System and Universal Certificate Authority, an information space built on least trust principles using continental computing chips and automated pairwise cryptography.
*   **Green Ball for Network Power Management:** Chen Wu presented a "Green Ball" initiative focused on power management in large-scale mobile, backbone, and data center networks. The goal is to develop automation tools and solutions to optimize energy consumption.
*   **End-to-End Encrypted Whistleblowing Platform:** Giulio discussed the challenges of building an end-to-end encrypted whistleblowing platform (SecureDrop) that meets specific usability and threat model requirements, differing from typical messaging protocols.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Jean:** Will host a side meeting to further discuss the future of SDOs. (Tennyson, tomorrow 3:30 to 5).
*   **Stuart:** Attendees interested in multicast issues were encouraged to attend the PIM session on Wednesday.
*   **Andrew (MTL Mode):** The community was asked to review the MTL Mode draft and participate in implementation and interoperability testing.
*   **David (Alpha 2.0):** Sought contributions and ideas for Alpha 2.0 development.
*   **Rich (Quick TLS Fork):** Seeking contributions to the Quick TLS fork in code, documentation, and ideas, as well as setting up the governance.
*   **Nick (Privacy.txt):** Seeking reviews and feedback on the privacy.txt draft, as well as collaboration on the tools.
*   **Pascal (Online Tele-securement):** Looking for people interested in developing services for online tele-securement.
*   **First:** Hosting a site meeting to discuss the use cases of high-performance wide area networks, use cases, requirements, and a rough concern of what IDF could do. (Tuesday after long).
*   **Si Peng Shio (IPv6 Performance):** Needed help reviewing test cases, writing Python scripts, contributing probes, analyzing results, and writing up a draft.
*   **Bill (Digital Emblems):** Encourage to chat with attendees in the Regency CD on Wednesday Morning.
*   **Manu (Universal Name System):** Site meeting on Wednesday to continue the conversation on the Universal Name System.
*   **Chen Wu (Green Ball):** Hosting a Green Ball session on Wednesday afternoon for discussion on energy efficient management.
*   **Giulio (SecureDrop):** Seeking input on use cases, post-quantum expertise, and threat model validation for the next gen secure drop.

## Next Steps

*   Presenters will continue their work based on community feedback and collaboration.
*   Attendees are encouraged to review drafts, participate in discussions, and contribute to the projects of interest.
