<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="manet.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF120-MANET-20240726-1630">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 26 Jul 2024 16:30</p>
<h1>manet</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The manet working group meeting focused on updates to pending drafts, presentations on OLSRv2 extensions and IPv6 addressing for ad hoc networks, and a discussion of charter revisions. Key points included the progress of credit-based flow control drafts, the need for reviews on DELAP extensions, proposals for OLSRv2 enhancements in near-static networks, and a new approach to IPv6 addressing in ad hoc environments using multi-link local addresses (MLAs). The charter revision discussion centered on the inclusion of AODV and multicast support, and potential work items.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Credit-Based Flow Control Drafts:</strong> Two drafts have passed IETF last call, and two are currently in last call. Directorate reviews are ongoing.</li>
<li><strong>DELAP Extensions:</strong> Strong encouragement for working group participants to review and comment on Henning Rogge's drafts on physical layer-based DELAP extensions.</li>
<li><strong>OLSRv2 Extensions (Christopher Dearlove):</strong> Presentation on a draft proposing modifications for OLSRv2 in near-static networks, specifically addressing the handling of router arrivals and departures without relying on periodic TC messages. The proposal suggests a remote router <em>may</em>, <em>should</em> or <em>shall</em> send TC message when it learns that a new router has popped up.</li>
<li><strong>IPv6 Addresses for Ad Hoc Networks (Fred Templin):</strong> Presentation on a draft introducing multi-link local addresses (MLAs) for use in isolated ad hoc networks. MLAs are intended to provide unique, self-generated addresses for interfaces in the absence of DHCP or router advertisements. Three types of MLAs are proposed.</li>
<li><strong>Charter Revision - AODV:</strong> Discussion on whether to include AODV in the revised charter, given limited active development. Concerns were raised about the current state of the AODV draft and the lack of dedicated resources.</li>
<li><strong>Charter Revision - Multicast:</strong> Discussion on including multicast support in the revised charter, especially in the context of heterogeneous layer 2/layer 1 technologies. It was noted that in static networks PIM isn't going to work because it uses RPF and RPF doesn't work in mesh networks.</li>
<li><strong>Charter Revision - Extensions and Maintenance:</strong> The need to explicitly include &quot;maintenance&quot; in the charter text alongside &quot;extensions&quot; for clarity.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Christopher Dearlove to post the OLSRv2 extensions draft to the mailing list for further comments and discussion.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Fred Templin to seek supporting comments on the six-man list.</li>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> Remove the sentence &quot;The main advantage of reactive solutions is low protocol overhead&quot; from the proposed charter.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Ronald to send the charter text with Julius' suggested rework of the Multicast section to the mailing list for further comments and discussion.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Abdul Salam, send an email with points on multicast to the mailing list.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussions on the charter revision on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Assess the level of community interest and resources available for AODV and multicast development.</li>
<li>Finalize the charter text based on feedback from the working group.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
