**Session Date/Time:** 23 Jul 2024 00:30

# mediaman

## Summary

The mediaman meeting focused primarily on the suffixes document and the decision on whether to allow multiple plus signs in suffixes. The discussion included a review of the latest draft, concerns about whether consensus had been reached, and a poll to gauge the working group's opinion on disallowing multiple suffixes.  The group also discussed the status of other documents and future milestones.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Suffixes Document (-08):** The new draft removes language allowing multiple plus signs in suffixes, effectively disallowing them. Manu presented the rationale, citing difficulty achieving consensus on the previous approach.
*   **Multiple Suffixes:** There was a discussion on whether the new draft (-08) accurately reflected working group consensus, with some feeling it was an editor's proposal rather than a consensus-driven change.  The group considered alternatives, including allowing multiple suffixes (reverting to -07), disallowing suffixes entirely, or leaving the situation as is (no explicit allowance or denial).
*   **Need for a Document:** The group discussed whether a document addressing suffixes was even necessary, considering the diminishing need for multiple suffixes from W3C working groups.  Arguments were made for documenting the decision (either allowing or disallowing) to provide guidance for media type reviewers and prevent future confusion.
*   **Operating System Use Cases:** A use case for multiple suffixes in operating systems (specifically Linux) was raised, but it was noted that this behavior is not universal across operating systems.
*   **Community Registration Process:** Concerns were raised about the lack of progress on the community registration process.
*    **RFC 2046 issues:** An issue about missing registration documents for media types described in RFC 2046 was raised.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Disallow Multiple Suffixes (Tentative):** A poll showed a majority opinion to disallow registration of multiple suffixes. This will be confirmed on the mailing list.
*   **Review Suffixes Draft:** Mark Nottingham and Alexei volunteered to carefully review the suffixes draft and file issues. Harold also agreed to a medium review.
*   **Address Issues:** The authors will address any issues raised during the review of the suffixes draft.
*    **Publish Suffixes Document:** The group then voted on whether the suffix document needed to be published as an RFC, with no consensus being reached.  This question will be taken to the mailing list.
*   **Follow up on RFC 2046 issues:** Harold and Amanda to follow up on issues regarding missing registration documents for media types described in RFC 2046.
*   **Update Milestones:** Harold to update the milestones.

## Next Steps

*   Confirm the decision to disallow registration of multiple suffixes via the mailing list.
*   Mark Nottingham and Alexei to complete their review of the suffixes draft.
*   Decide to publish the Suffixes document or roll it into the BIS.
*   Discuss future registration and Q management at the next meeting.
