**Session Date/Time:** 26 Jul 2024 20:00

# nfsv4

## Summary

The nfsv4 meeting covered several key topics, including document status, milestones, internationalization draft updates, and a discussion about the Flex Files draft. The meeting focused on updating milestones, clarifying action items, and improving the efficiency of interim meetings.  A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to a discussion around the best approach for ACLs and the challenges in mapping them across different file systems. The size and structure of the NFS documents was also discussed at length.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Internationalization Draft:** The internationalization draft is nearing working group last call, with a review from Christopher Janz to be addressed in the next version.
*   **Interim Meetings:** Discussed improving the productivity and timing of interim meetings, with suggestions to tighten up agendas and publish them earlier.
*   **Milestones:** A key focus was on updating milestones, specifically for Ackles, internationalization, Flex Files, and security. There was discussion about the appropriate level of granularity and commitment to proposed work items.
*   **Flex Files V2:** Tom Herbert presented on Flex Files V2, focusing on protection types, client-side mirroring, and erasure encoding. The discussion highlighted challenges related to security, encoding protection types, and data recovery in distributed systems.
*   **ACLs:** Dave B presented on the status of the ACL documents and described changes to bring the behavior closer to Posix. Discussion followed regarding what problem is being solved by the proposed ACL changes, and whether it is possible to create a wire protocol that works for all cases.
*   **Document Size and Structure:** There was extensive discussion about the size and number of documents, with suggestions to split them further while maintaining inter-document reference integrity. There was concern that splitting them into too many documents that are code-dependent is not useful to the IESG and IETF.
    *   Consensus seems to be that the separate Security considerations document is beneficial.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Action Item:** Chairs to tighten up agendas for interim meetings and publish them earlier.
*   **Action Item:** Chairs to send milestone updates within a week or so.
*   **Action Item:** Dave B to continue work on ACL draft, clarifying the motivation and specific changes.
*   **Action Item:** Chair needs to lead a conversation on the mailing list to come to a conclusion regarding the document size and structure.

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussions on the mailing list regarding the document size and structure, leading to a working group decision.
*   Address review comments and finalize the internationalization draft for working group last call.
*   Continue work on Flex Files V2, focusing on architectural considerations and data recovery mechanisms.
*   Dave B will post a new revision of the ACL draft incorporating comments from this meeting.
*   Chairs to create action items to track consensus items in meeting appendices.
