<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="scim.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF120-SCIM-20240724-0030">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 24 Jul 2024 00:30</p>
<h1>scim</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The SCIM working group session covered updates on several drafts: Cursor Pagination, Delta Queries, SCIM Events, and the Device Model document. Key discussions revolved around interoperability for Cursor Pagination, the design and use cases for Delta Queries, the relationship between SCIM Events and SSF, and security considerations for the Device Model.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Cursor Pagination:</strong>  Need for proof of interoperability with multiple independent implementations.</li>
<li><strong>Delta Queries:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The new version introduces capability to return modified resources (created, updated, deleted) as well as tracking change attributes only.</li>
<li>Discussion of representing attribute-level changes using SCIM patch operations semantics.</li>
<li>Feedback requested on the new draft. Including concerns about metadata for deleted items.</li>
<li>Suggestion for a timestamp for deleted resources, and discussion of making it optional.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>SCIM Events:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Draft nearing completion and moving towards working group last call.</li>
<li>Removed normative references to how events are delivered.</li>
<li>Added definition to the version tag to align with RFC 7644.</li>
<li>Discussion on the decoupling of SCIM Events and SSF (Shared Signals Framework), with the consensus to proceed with working group last call without a normative SSF dependency.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Device Model:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Early IOT and sector review received.</li>
<li>Need to clarify the document's scope (provisioning network infrastructure, not direct device interaction).</li>
<li>Addressing security considerations based on reviewer feedback.</li>
<li>Seeking expertise on identifying certificates within the draft.</li>
<li>Review comments suggest objects can contain credentials.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Cursor Pagination:</strong> Continue seeking implementations for interoperability testing. Danny will follow up with working groups that gave feedback to have them review the changes and sign off.</li>
<li><strong>Delta Queries:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Anjali and Danny will incorporate feedback on including a timestamp for deleted resources and consider making it optional.</li>
<li>Dean, George, Elliot, and David volunteered to review and provide feedback on the Delta Queries draft.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>SCIM Events:</strong> Move to working group last call. Phil to organize a side meeting on SSF and SCM events and determine if there's a need for an interim meeting with open ID</li>
<li><strong>Device Model:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Elliot to update the document based on the security review feedback, focusing on clarifying the scope and certificate identification.</li>
<li>Monty and Kathleen to review the updated Device Model draft.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Cursor Pagination:</strong> Shepherd write-up to continue.</li>
<li><strong>Delta Queries:</strong>  Await feedback from the volunteer reviewers.</li>
<li><strong>SCIM Events:</strong>  Initiate working group last call. Schedule SCIM events and SSF Side meeting/interim meeting.</li>
<li><strong>Device Model:</strong>  Elliot to update the draft and circulate for review by Monty and Kathleen.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
