<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="spring.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF120-SPRING-20240726-2000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 26 Jul 2024 20:00</p>
<h1>spring</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The spring working group meeting covered document updates, rechartering, and several draft presentations. Key topics included security considerations in segment routing, validity criteria for SR policies, inter-layer network programming, micro-tap segments, SRv6 SPAN, IPv6-only networks, BFD encapsulation for SRv6 policies, aggregate header limits, and a new SRv6-based data plane for deterministic networking. The meeting emphasized the need for increased working group participation in document adoption and milestone management.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Rechartering:</strong> The charter is being updated to reflect current work and the creation of the SRV6 ops working group. A key change is moving away from a fixed list of work items in the charter to managing milestones based on working group input and AD consultation. Concerns were raised about the removal of explicit mentions of security and untrusted domains.</li>
<li><strong>Security Considerations Draft:</strong> Discussed expanding the scope description and reworking the threat model section. Open questions remain about including micro-tap segment topics.</li>
<li><strong>SR Policy Validity Draft:</strong> Defined new validity parameters for SR policies based on comments from the community, aiming to call for WG adoption.</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 Inter-Layer Network Programming:</strong> Presented use cases for SRv6 in integrating IP, optical, and metro transport networks. The draft proposes new SRv6 endpoint behaviors. Concerns were raised about the limited applicability, trust between networks, and if there's really a need for new behaviors vs. just leveraging existing ones.</li>
<li><strong>Micro-Tap Segment Draft:</strong> Updates included SRv6 optimizations and support for tapping by the monitor node itself. Concerns were raised about ECMP impact, security considerations, and negative connotations of using the term &quot;tap&quot;.</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 SPAN Draft:</strong> Discussed SRv6 SPAN for mirroring technology, seeking compatibility with ERSPAN.</li>
<li><strong>IPv6-only Network Draft:</strong> The group looked at segment for IPV6 over IPV6-only networks.</li>
<li><strong>BFD Encapsulation Draft:</strong> Presented updates removing BFD echo packet encapsulation and renaming modes.</li>
<li><strong>Aggregate Header Limit Draft:</strong> Addressed the problem of increasing header sizes in SRv6 and its impact on devices with processing limits.</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 for Deterministic Networking Draft:</strong> Introduced a new SRv6-based data plane for deterministic networking and pre-off function.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Rechartering:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Tom Hill will propose text regarding security considerations for the charter.</li>
<li>Chairs will determine how milestones will be managed.</li>
<li>Participants to review and comment on the charter on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Security Considerations Draft:</strong> Authors to consider feedback on SIDs, the block that's been allocated, the applicability to trusted domains, and the SRV6 ops work.</li>
<li><strong>SR Policy Validity Draft:</strong> Authors to reduce the number of authors.</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 Inter-Layer Network Programming:</strong> Discussion about scope to continue on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Micro-Tap Segment Draft:</strong> Authors to consider security implications, the use of the word &quot;tap&quot;, potential solutions like other RFCs, etc. and their motivations.</li>
<li><strong>IPv6-only Network Draft:</strong> Authors to provide references for what they're working with and show how it's different from other available options.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to address feedback received on their respective drafts.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Prepare for IETF 120 in Dublin.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
