**Session Date/Time:** 25 Jul 2024 22:00

# vcon

## Summary

The VCON meeting at IETF 120 covered several key topics, including the VCon container draft, metadata for contact center use cases, CDDL and CBOR support, hackathon findings, and future directions for the working group. A significant decision was made to focus on JSON as the primary format for VCon, with optional GZIP compression.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Contact Center Use Cases Metadata:** Review and resolution of metadata from Jonathan Hui's contact center use cases draft. Discussion on the need for an "interaction type" enumeration, specifically the type of channel (SMS, email, web chat).
*   **CDDL and CBOR:** Extensive discussion on the potential inclusion of CDDL and CBOR support in the VCon draft. Concerns were raised about tooling maturity and the complexity of supporting multiple formats.
*   **Hackathon Findings (Redaction Object):** Exploration of the redaction object, specifically whether to allow in-line VCons within redacted objects or restrict to UUID/URL references.
*   **Streaming VCon Construction:** Discussion on the feasibility of streaming the construction of a VCon, deemed difficult to achieve without major structural changes.
*   **Scrappy Beacons:** Integration of VCON and SCIT. The VCON data would trigger entries in the SCIT ledger providing a audit trail and record for regulators to inspect.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Decision:** The working group reached a consensus to focus on JSON as the primary format for VCon, with mandatory implementation of GZIP support but optional usage. CBOR/CDDL support will not be pursued in the core VCon draft.
    *   **Action Item:** Dan to remove CBOR/CDDL related content from the draft.
*   **Decision:** The group will revisit and decide if the reference in the redacted object should be UUID or URL.
*   **Action Item:** Dan to investigate separate recording file support for each party.
*   **Action Item:** Dan to consider ORI's suggestion of removing the use case section.
*   **Action Item:** Thomas to bring the question about VCON governance life cycle into the mailing list.

## Next Steps

*   Dan to incorporate the decisions from this meeting into the VCon container draft.
*   Encourage the submission of I-Ds covering emergency services and messages use cases.
*   Community feedback requested on the redaction of data
*   More explanation and working code required for Referential VCONs
