**Session Date/Time:** 21 Mar 2024 03:00

# 6man

## Summary

The 6man working group meeting covered document status updates, discussions on working group documents and individual drafts, and a proposal for new work related to QoS. Key topics included source address selection, extension header limits, prefix delegation availability, link-local address entry in user interfaces, stub router RA flags, immediate RA transmission, and considerations for new QoS mechanisms. There was significant discussion on the NPTv6 draft and whether it should be adopted.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Source Address Selection:** The working group is discussing what the draft should say about scoliosis before advancing the draft.
*   **Extension Header Limit:** Volunteers are needed for shepherding and reviewing the extension header limit document.
*   **Slack Renumbering Draft:** A new author/editor will be assigned to drive the draft forward, potentially combining it with related drafts.
*   **Cross-Working Group Collaboration:** Clarification on the process for addressing issues requiring collaboration with other working groups, emphasizing the need for confirmation from those groups' chairs before 6man allocates significant time.
*   **NRP in IPv6 Extension Header:** Discussion on the usage of the S flag and the need for simplifying the hop-by-hop option for hardware processing.
*   **Prefix Delegation Availability:** Discussion on host behavior related to prefix delegation and conflict resolution with multiple PIOs.
*   **Link-Local Address Entry:** Discussion on the scope of the draft, especially in relation to browsers and multicast addresses, API point.
*   **Stub Router RA Flag:** The purpose of the stub router RA flag and concerns related to MNO bit consistency.
*   **Immediate RA Transmission:** Proposals for immediate sending of RAs upon changes and concerns about rate limiting and link-local address configuration.
*   **NPTv6 Adoption:** A substantial debate over the potential adoption of the NPTv6 draft, with concerns about its impact on application developers and alternative solutions for multi-homing and renumbering.
*   **QoS Mechanisms:** Exploration of adding a new registry for fixed-size extension headers in support of QoS.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Source Address Selection:** Continue discussion on the mailing list to reach a consensus on scoliosis.
*   **Extension Header Limit:** Chairs to identify and assign a shepherd and additional reviewers for the document.
*   **Slack Renumbering Draft:** Chairs to assign a new author/editor.
*   **NRP in IPv6 Extension Header:** Further discussion on the mailing list regarding simplifying the hop-by-hop option.
*   **Prefix Delegation Availability:** Add more text to explain what should happen when there are conflicts.
*   **NPTv6 Adoption:** No decision made.
*   **Stub Router RA Flag:** No decision made, to be discussed further on the mailing list. The document to be updated to not have any normative text.
*   **Immediate RA Transmission:** To merge 48, 6, 2, one update into Slack Renum.

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussions on the mailing lists for the various drafts under consideration.
*   Address the action items related to assigning shepherds and reviewers.
*   Consider incorporating feedback into updated draft versions.
*   Further consideration is needed regarding the NPTv6 draft.
