<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="avtcore.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF119-AVTCORE-20240318-2330">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 18 Mar 2024 23:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># avtcore Meeting Minutes

## Summary
The avtcore meeting covered a variety of topics, including updates on existing drafts, discussions on new proposals, and administrative matters. Key discussions focused on Gella short tags for GCM, V3C codec parameter signaling and transmission modes, RTP over QUIC future directions, and the potential adoption of a new Advanced Professional Video Codec (APV). The meeting concluded with action items related to draft adoption, working group last calls, and the appointment of document shepherds.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Gella Short Tags for GCM:** A presentation on Gella short tags highlighted the need for secure short tags in media encryption and radio link layers. Discussion centered on hardware support for Gella compared to GCM and the potential for CFRG adoption.
*   **V3C Codec:**  Feedback from Christopher and Jonathan regarding SDP grouping was reviewed, resulting in discussion around adding a V3C specific attribute to the SDP. The need for three different transmission modes (taken from HEVC) was questioned and it was proposed that a simpler VVC/EVC-like model may be better suited. The usefulness of &quot;Don&quot; in the wild was also discussed.
*   **RTP over QUIC:** The draft status was updated to experimental. Discussions covered guidance on choosing QUIC streams or datagrams, coalescing RTP packets, and the removal of multiplexing with non-RTP/RTCP protocols. Future directions, particularly regarding peer-to-peer support, were debated in the context of working group last call. It was suggested SDP spec changes are not a blocker to working group last call but are a blocker to RFC publication.
*   **Advanced Professional Video Codec (APV):** A new codec proposal for professional video applications was presented, emphasizing royalty-free and royalty-risk-free aspects. Discussions revolved around the suitability of IETF for standardization, alternative codecs, payload format considerations, and potential collaboration with other organizations like seller, AOM.
*   **S Frame:** Discussion centered around duplicating header extensions, where per-packet semantics should differ, and the need for implementation experience before progressing the document. It was mentioned that transport-level items shouldn't be encapsulated.
*   **Haptics Draft:** The IANA registry and related information was updated.
*   **JPEG 2000 Draft:** Updates from hardware implementation of J2K were provided.
*   **Document Shepherding:** Volunteers for document shepherds were solicited, with Althani Acoustin and Colin offering their services.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Action:** Chairs to initiate adoption call for Viewport Region of Interest and Haptics drafts.
*   **Action:** Chairs to initiate working group last call for RTP over QUIC after addressing minor issues.
*   **Action:** Chairs to initiate working group last call for S Frame after addressing feedback.
*   **Action:** Author to revise S Frame draft, incorporating feedback on header extensions and packet semantics.
*   **Action:** Peter to create a J2K repo and transfer the existing public repo to that group.
*   **Action:** Spencer to update the email list for the official ABC org.

## Next Steps

*   Address remaining issues and feedback on V3C, RTP over QUIC and S Frame drafts.
*   Continue exploring collaboration options for the APV codec proposal.
*   Follow up with potential independent implementer for JPEG 2000.
*   Prepare drafts for adoption and working group last call processes.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
