**Session Date/Time:** 22 Mar 2024 03:00

# httpapi

## Summary

The httpapi working group meeting covered the status of existing documents, including those that have left working group last call and current drafts under development.  Key discussions revolved around Link Hints, REST API media types, Deprecation, Content-ID, and Byte Range specifications. The chairs solicited community feedback and participation, especially for progressing stagnant documents.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **YAML Media Type:** Published as RFC 9512.
*   **Link Template Header:** Currently in IESG review.
*   **Rate Limit Headers:** Draft expired but still being actively worked on.
*   **API Catalog:** Discussion on the document with a call for review.
*   **Link Auth:**  A new version of the document was just refreshed, and a security directorate review will be requested.
*   **Link Hints:**  Major issue identified regarding the data model and serialization. Mark Nottingham will rework the proposal and present it for further discussion.  The goal is to avoid tying the data model to a specific serialization.  Serializing to HTML attributes was raised as a use case.
*   **REST API Media Types:** Discussion about registering `application/openapi` media type, particularly regarding YAML processing capabilities.  Authors to be consulted and volunteers solicited.
*   **Deprecation:**  Volunteer needed to help finish the document.
*   **Content-ID:** A second working group last call will be initiated after incorporating feedback.
*   **Byte Range:** A new version of the document has been published focusing on the content offset header. Austin requested a review of the structured fields syntax and the parameter names. Discussion about the scope being restricted to publishing a media and the relation to HTTP biz or a potential HTTP protocol extension with new HTTP methods, media types and parameters.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Link Auth:** Daryl will request a security directorate review.
*   **Link Hints:** Mark Nottingham will rework the document based on the data model concerns and propose a new version.
*   **REST API Media Types:** Chairs will contact authors to assess their continued involvement and solicit volunteers on the mailing list.
*   **Deprecation:** Chairs will contact authors to assess their continued involvement and solicit volunteers on the mailing list.
*   **Content-ID:** Redo the working group last call.

## Next Steps

*   Mark Nottingham will work on a revised proposal for Link Hints.
*   Chairs will follow up with authors and solicit volunteers for REST API Media Types and Deprecation documents.
*   Daryl will follow up with authors of Content-ID.
*   Continue discussion on open issues in the GitHub repositories.
