<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="mpls.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF119-MPLS-20240319-0730">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 19 Mar 2024 07:30</p>
<h1>mpls</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This meeting covered the working group status, updates on the &quot;First Nibble&quot; draft, discussion of use cases for MPLS network actions (M&amp;A), and a presentation on extending ICMPv6 for SRv6 validation.  Key discussions revolved around the deprecation of certain behaviors related to the &quot;First Nibble&quot; and the need for control plane validation in SRv6 networks.  The meeting also included acknowledgements to outgoing and incoming chairs and area directors.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Working Group Status:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Review of reports, a liaison statement, and documents expiring.</li>
<li>The SFL control document is currently subject to a formal poll on the mailing list due to issues raised during IETF Last Call.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>&quot;First Nibble&quot; Update:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Terminology change: &quot;MPLS First Nibble&quot; is now referred to as &quot;Post-Stack First Nibble&quot;.</li>
<li>Updates to RFC 4928 were extracted into a separate section.</li>
<li>Discussion on whether to use normative language (&quot;should&quot; or &quot;must&quot;) regarding deprecating behaviors and identifying flows.</li>
<li>IANA registry considerations and options for the &quot;Post-Stack First Nibble&quot; value registrations.</li>
<li>Security considerations: potential addition of text regarding fixing a security hole by deprecating certain behaviors.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>M&amp;A Use Cases Update:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The document focuses on three network actions: fast reroute, C2OEM, and network slicing/resource partitioning.</li>
<li>Other use cases are included for informational purposes in an appendix.</li>
<li>The document is considered stable and ready for working group last call.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 Validation:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Presentation on extending ICMPv6 for SRv6 related information validation.</li>
<li>Discussion on the need for validation between data and control planes in SRv6, drawing comparisons with MPLS FEC validation.</li>
<li>Suggestions to also present the SRv6 validation draft in the <code>best</code> working group since it involves service based services like EVPN.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>&quot;First Nibble&quot; Draft:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Authors will consider the feedback on normative language (&quot;should&quot; vs. &quot;must&quot;) regarding deprecation of behaviors.</li>
<li>Authors will update the document with potential security considerations.</li>
<li>Authors will come back to the group with a proposed update on the IANA registry after further discussions with IANA.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>M&amp;A Use Cases:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Working group chairs to verify consensus on the document's stability.</li>
<li>If consensus is confirmed, the document will proceed to working group last call.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 Validation:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The authors to consider presenting this draft at the <code>best</code> working group.</li>
<li>Seek requirements and feedback from network operators on the SRv6 draft.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussion on the MPLS mailing list regarding the SFL control document and &quot;First Nibble&quot; draft.</li>
<li>Address action items listed above.</li>
<li>The next MPLS session will be in Vancouver in about 3 to 4 months.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
