**Session Date/Time:** 22 Mar 2024 03:00

```markdown
# nfsv4

## Summary

This nfsv4 IETF meeting covered document status updates, discussions on security and internationalization in NFSv4, and a proposal for NFSv4.3. Additionally, there were presentations on RDMA and network-assisted collective acceleration, which sparked discussion about the relevance of these topics to the nfsv4 working group's charter.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **NVMe Layout RFC Publication:** NVMe layout is progressing to RFC 9561.
*   **Layout Rec Reviews:** Layout rec is under review, with small points to address before a working group last call.
*   **Delta Update:** Discussion of the Delta document's status, with a request for review of the changes. There was discussion as to which version of the draft should be reviewed.
*   **Layout WCC:** Status update needed, action item for offline follow-up.
*   **GitHub Repository:** Status update on the creation of a GitHub repository for the working group. Includes XDR reference file and Security doc. Request for instructions on how to add documents.
*   **RFC 5661bis:** Dave Novak presented updates on the RFC 5661bis effort, focusing on security and internationalization.
    *   Split of ACL material into a separate document.
    *   Shift to numeric IDs.
    *   Discussion on internationalization proposals.
    *   Discussion on the possibility of making minor changes to XDR in RFC 5662bis.
*   **Security Discussion:**
    *   Threat analyses and availability of encryption without RPCGSS.
    *   Impact of stringified numeric IDs vs. numeric IDs in various security contexts (Kerberos, Osisk). Disagreement about implications for existing implementations.
*   **ACL Discussion:**
    *   Interaction of ACLs and modes, and the ability of different implementations to use different mappings.
    *   Canonical description of the 3 Read, Write, and Execute.
*   **NFSv4.3 Proposal:** Tom Haynes presented a proposal for NFSv4.3 focused on security and deprecating less desirable features. The discussion explored the pros and cons of making security mandatory in a new minor version.
*   **RDMA and Network-Assisted Collective Acceleration (NACA):**
    *   Rubin presented on RDMA-based collective communication offloading to switches.
    *   Discussion regarding the relevance of Rocky V2 to IETF and whether this falls under the scope of the working group.
    *   Discussions and questions about iWarp related topics and its suitability for NACA.
    *   Jess presented on NACA within AI Networking and related solutions.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Layout Rec:** Tom to work with the submitter to iron out the outstanding review.
*   **Delta Update:** Reviewers to review the Delta document version 04.
*   **Layout WCC:** Offline follow-up to determine status and next steps.
*   **GitHub Repository:** Chris to publish instructions on how to add documents to the GitHub repository.
*   **RFC 5661 Security:** Dave to address comments on stringified numeric IDs and the error "NFS4ERR_BADOWNER" in the Security document (dash 08), producing a -09 draft.
*   **RFC 5661 ACL:** Dave to continue work on -01 version of the ACL document.
*   **NFSv4.3 Proposal:** Continue discussion on the list regarding the scope and goals of NFSv4.3.

## Next Steps

*   Reviewers to read and provide feedback on the updated Delta and security documents.
*   Dave to address comments and produce updated drafts.
*   Continue discussion on the mailing list regarding NFSv4.3 and RDMA-related proposals.
*   Follow the upcoming interim meetings for continued work on these topics.
```