<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="pce.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF119-PCE-20240319-0530">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 19 Mar 2024 05:30</p>
<h1>pce</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The PCE working group session covered the status of various drafts, including those related to stateful PCE, segment routing, and new metric objects.  Discussions focused on open issues, backward compatibility, and the interaction of new features with existing protocols.  The group provided feedback to authors, and action items were assigned to address specific issues and coordinate with other working groups.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Stateful PCE Extensions (Optional Processing):</strong> Clarification was sought regarding the handling of P and I flags in stateful PCEP messages.  Discussion focused on the need for backward compatibility and whether existing text adequately addressed the issue.</li>
<li><strong>Synchronization of PCE Information:</strong> Concerns were raised about the lack of synchronization of information exchanged in the Open message between PCEs when delegating LSPs. The working group debated whether this gap should be addressed in the current draft or left for a future document.</li>
<li><strong>SR Policy Point-to-Multipoint:</strong>  Updates included new authors and alignment with related drafts. Discussion included the design choices for path instances and replication segments, with a call for early feedback due to ongoing implementation efforts. Reusing TLV Types was also discussed and it was agreed to resolve offline.</li>
<li><strong>Circuit-Style Policies:</strong>  Updates following working group adoption were presented, with an invitation for feedback on use cases and existing implementations.</li>
<li><strong>Flat Banded Latency:</strong>  Discussion centered on the integration with DetNet requirements and existing latency metrics, and the interaction with existing metric types and how these 3 deterministic types are related.</li>
<li><strong>Path Computation Based Precision Availability Metrics:</strong>  A new metric object for defining metrics statistically was presented. Concerns were raised regarding time unit granularity and the interaction with existing metrics. Concerns was raised about the metric applicability and the stateless model.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Stateful PCE Extensions (Optional Processing):</strong> Author to consider backward compatibility concerns based on mailing list feedback and update the document accordingly.</li>
<li><strong>Synchronization of PCE Information:</strong> Authors to address the open issue regarding the synchronization of Open message information between PCEs, exploring potential solutions such as TLVs in delegation reports or new notification messages. Andrew to provide more detailed feedback in Mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>SR Policy Point-to-Multipoint:</strong> Authors to resolve the reuse of TLV Types, and resolve ofline. Authors to respect the limits of the number of authors.</li>
<li><strong>Flat Banded Latency:</strong> Chairs to coordinate with the DetNet working group regarding requirements and adoption of the draft.</li>
<li><strong>Path Computation Based Precision Availability Metrics:</strong> Author to clarify the time unit granularity and the interaction with existing metrics in the document. Author to clarify Metric applicability with PCC init.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to address feedback received during the meeting and on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Chairs to coordinate with DetNet regarding the Flat Banded Latency draft.</li>
<li>Continued discussion on the mailing list to resolve open issues and refine draft content.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
