**Session Date/Time:** 18 Mar 2024 23:30

# rats

## Summary
The RATS working group meeting covered several topics including media types, conceptual message wrappers, co-room enhancements and verifier algorithm simplification, next set of rats problems, HSM evidence, the new TRUSTED-PATH initiative, and the software components claim.  The discussion included updates on draft progress, feedback from working group last calls, and potential future work items.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Media Types:** Discussion centered on progressing the media types draft, specifically early allocation, the shepherd's review, normative dependencies on other drafts (e.g., UCCS), and the timing of code point allocation.
*   **Conceptual Message Wrappers (CMW):**  The discussion covered changes made following the first working group last call, including unifying CWT types, allowing mixed encodings in collections via tunneling, and clarifying relationships with TCG OIDs. There was also discussion of examples, and dependencies on other drafts such as CSR attestation.
*   **Co-Room:**  The discussion covered GitHub issues, language enhancements, and new features in the current release including tagged bytes as a new identifier type, integrity registers for measurement values, and the multi enrollment conditional MEC endorsement triple. Also, it was mentioned that there was a simplification of the verifier algorithm.
*   **Verifier Algorithm:** The discussion covered the inputs to the algorithm, including evidence, reference values, endorsements and their matching conditions. There was a discussion around different types of scalability and efficiency considerations. The concept of views and how the relying party can request certain views was introduced.
*   **Next Set of RATS Problems:**  Discussion revolved around extending the RATS architecture to address nested or interconnected RATS domains, particularly within supply chains. The discussion highlighted the need to specify the "blue boxes" connecting different RATS implementations, enabling attestation results to be chained together.
*   **HSM Evidence:**  This was a status update on the biweekly design team meetings and focused on completing the lamps draft CSR attestation. The group discussed the design goals of the effort. There was discussion regarding whether to use a certificate authority as the means of transport.
*   **TRUSTED-PATH Initiative:** A new cross-area initiative between the routing and security areas was introduced, aimed at securing network paths using trusted devices and attested environments. The discussion centered on the use of RATS output for attestation, and similarities with other efforts, such as the Trusted Path Routing (TPR) draft.
*   **Software Components Claim:** An update on the software component claim and a suggestion was made on whether it should be adopted. It described improvements on the interoperability with the PSA and EAT. It also brought up the potential for HSM vendors to use it.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Media Types:** Proceed with the normal document progression route rather than requesting early allocation of code points.  Kathleen will finish the Shepherd's report and work with the AD (Deb) to move the document forward.
*   **Conceptual Message Wrappers (CMW):** After resolving issues in the editor, publish draft version 5 and initiate a second working group last call.
*   **Next Set of RATS Problems:** Take the discussions to the mailing list for further input.
*   **Software Components Claim:** The chairs will send out a poll to see how many read it, and if the software component should be adopted.

## Next Steps

*   Authors of drafts to address outstanding issues and feedback.
*   Discussions to continue on the mailing list for "Next Set of RATS Problems" and "Software Components Claim".
*   Working group members to review updated drafts when available.
