<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="tsvwg.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF119-TSVWG-20240318-0730">Recording 1</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF119-TSVWG-20240319-0300">Recording 2</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 18 Mar 2024 07:30</p>
<h1>tsvwg</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This TSvwg session covered updates on several drafts, including UDP options, L4S operational guidance, and NQB PHB.  Discussions focused on resolving remaining issues and determining next steps for each draft. The group aims to move forward with working group last calls for several documents.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>UDP Options Draft:</strong>
<ul>
<li>All identified issues have been closed, with version 32 planned for release.</li>
<li>Lingering disagreements were discussed, including the definition of &quot;unsafe&quot; options.</li>
<li>The group is looking for volunteers to review the latest version of the draft.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>L4S Operations Draft:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The group discussed whether to keep the draft open for further updates based on deployment experience.</li>
<li>Stewart mentioned the importance of L4S deployment in cable networks and the upcoming trial by Comcast.</li>
<li>Martin noted the need to involve the Linux community to get L4S support in Linux.</li>
<li>The group agreed to keep the document open for future updates as new experiences are gained.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>L4S Interoperability Events:</strong>
<ul>
<li>CableLabs announced upcoming L4S interoperability events in April and at IETF 120 in Vancouver.</li>
<li>Kenji asked about how the draft addresses the case when a router has a marking for LFS and then it's going to have another layer of encryption like the GTP, UDP IP for the external.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>NQB PHB Draft:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Bob Brusco's detailed review was discussed, including comments on limiting burstiness and interoperability with non-DiffServ capable domains.</li>
<li>The group agreed to discourage packet dropping as a traffic protection mechanism.</li>
<li>The authors believe they have addressed all comments from the working group last call and subsequent reviews.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>UDP Options Draft:</strong> Start a working group last call after coordination with the editor on the latest version.</li>
<li><strong>L4S Operations Draft:</strong> Keep the draft open and update it with new information from trials and deployments.  Encourage experiments and additional contributions.</li>
<li><strong>NQB PHB Draft:</strong> Start a working group last call.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Working Group chairs will coordinate with editors to initiate working group last calls for the UDP Options and NQB PHB drafts.</li>
<li>The L4S operations draft will remain open, and contributors are encouraged to provide updates based on deployment experience.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 19 Mar 2024 03:00</p>
<h1>tsvwg</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The TSVWG meeting covered several topics, including updates on SCTP authentication, careful resumption, and signaling intentions to the network. A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to a design team report on DTLS over SCTP proposals, followed by discussion on requirements for media handling in wireless networks and collaborative signaling between hosts and networks.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>SCTP Authentication:</strong> Michael presented updates to the SCTP authentication draft, focusing on key management, backwards compatibility, and next steps.  John emphasized the need to explicitly state the lack of replay protection for data if it is not implemented.</li>
<li><strong>DTLS over SCTP Design Team Report:</strong> Magnus presented the design team's analysis of three proposals for DTLS over SCTP. The proposals were evaluated based on technical requirements, IPR considerations, and estimated completion time. Key points included Ericsson's preference for proposal B, Nokia's preference for proposal C, and concerns about IPR implications and the complexity of implementing proposal B in the kernel.  The group also discussed the potential need to engage with OpenSSL regarding IPR concerns.</li>
<li><strong>Design Team Requirements:</strong> Sixteen people said they agreed with the requirements from the design team and no people said against it. The working group is going to set those requirements as the basis for doing the work. The design team was closed.</li>
<li><strong>Multiple DTLS Solutions?:</strong> Is there an appetite to work on two solutions between B and C?</li>
<li><strong>Careful Resumption:</strong> Martin updated on the Careful Resumption draft, highlighting recent revisions, Q log support, pending edits, and ongoing unit tests. He requested feedback and implementations from the community.</li>
<li><strong>Media Handling in Wireless Networks:</strong> John presented requirements for signaling to the network regarding media handling in wireless networks.  The discussion focused on metadata for media frames and streams, traffic shaping parameters (burst size, jitter, packet loss), privacy considerations, and scalability. John and other coauthors were encouraged to involve media folks in Eviticore and Mops.</li>
<li><strong>Collaborative Host-Network Signaling:</strong> Ned presented a use case draft focused on collaborative signaling between hosts and networks to address dynamic network conditions. The discussion covered the trade-offs between cost and benefit, operational impact, and security considerations.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Michael to adjust wording in the SCTP authentication draft regarding replay protection.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Chairs to add an item on a list of questions that would help make a decision on the two DTLS proposals (B and C). The action is to help decide which documents to progress to an RFC.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> John and Ned to consider producing a common document that talks about the issues of trust with signaling.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussion on DTLS over SCTP proposals (B and C) on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Continue work on Carefully Resumption draft, incorporating feedback on Q log support and unit tests.</li>
<li>Continue discussion on Media Handling in wireless network and host-network signaling on the mailing list, and consider producing the suggested joint document.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
