**Session Date/Time:** 29 Mar 2023 04:00

# anima

## Summary
The ANIMA working group meeting focused on the progress of several key drafts, particularly those related to bootstrapping and auto-configuration. Discussions centered around the B (bootstrapping) drafts, including Bruce (Bootstrap Remote Secure Endpoints), B P (bootstrap proxy), and B cloud, and their dependencies on the yang model (RFC 8366 bis). A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to technical discussions on the structure and implementation of voucher formats, particularly J aws voucher. There was discussion of the need to keep drafts related to bootstrapping in the working group longer, up to the point of Area Director review, to allow for fixes and synchronization before submission to the RFC editor queue. The meeting also covered the distribution and management of network services using grasp and other solutions.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **B (Bootstrapping) Drafts Status:** Review of progress and dependencies of Bruce, B P, and B cloud drafts. Focus on synchronization with RFC 8366 bis regarding the yang model.
*   **RFC 8366 bis Yang Model:** Extensive discussion on the challenges of extending the yang model for vouchers, particularly the use of augment vs. structure, and the potential for creating entirely new objects instead of extending existing ones.
*   **J aws Voucher:** Stefan provided a status update on the J aws voucher draft, which defines a J aws-signed voucher artifact using the yang definitions in RFC 8366 bis, and discussion of issues raised during working group last call.
*   **Bruce (Bootstrap Remote Secure Endpoints):** Stefan presented an update on Bruce, addressing open issues and comments from the security and iot directorates. Issues related to register discovery, agent interaction, and voucher structure were discussed.
*   **Ru Aes (Alternative Enrollment Protocols Support):** David provided an update on Ru Aes, emphasizing the clarification of terminology, normative requirements, and the document's role in replacing a specific section of Bruce key.
*   **Generic of Deployment and Management Need for Resource Placed to Network Services:** Discussion of syntax and readiness for working group last call.
*   **Grasp Distribution:** Rewrite and restructure that incorporated technical analysis of information distribution model.
*   **Registrar and Mass Considerations:** Michael provided a refresher on these documents, focusing on PkI management and the appropriate level of complexity for registrar deployments.
*   **Testing Plans for Mobility:**  Michael discussed interop testing, and his setting up a zerotier Vpn.
*   **Auto Configuration Proposals:** Michael discussed the Anima Automatic AI with its components and benefits of the proposed solution.

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **Keep related bootstrapping drafts within the working group:** To allow for fixing and synchronization before sending to IESG.  Area Director review should be the cutoff point for the ANIMA WG to fix anything.
*   **Address open issues on Bruce:** Stefan to address open issues on the Bruce draft, including discovery, agent interaction, and voucher-related issues.
*   **Ru Aes Working Group Last Call:** A reminder was sent that Ru Aes is still under working group last call.
*   **Consider Registrar and Mass Considerations:** The group is to consider if Registrar and Mass Considerations draft should be adopted as an informational or experimental RFC.
*   **Complete Testing of ZeroTier Vpn:** Michael to provide setup document for ZeroTier vpn to the mailing list.
*   **Extend Temporary Allocation:** Request IANA to extend the temporary allocation for constrained vouchers for another year.

## Next Steps
*   Stefan to address the J aws voucher feedback and finalize the document.
*   Michael to provide an overview of current proposed Young layout for the team to review.
*   Michael to test the zerotier VPN.
*   Working group to continue discussion on the mailing list.
