<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="bess.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-BESS-20230329-0030">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 29 Mar 2023 00:30</p>
<h1>bess</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This BESS working group meeting covered a variety of topics, including document status updates, presentations of new and existing drafts, and requests for working group adoption. A major theme was the need to address existing issues in previously published RFCs and drafts, with several presentations focused on clarifications and extensions to existing procedures.  The chairs emphasized the need to reduce the document backlog and encouraged more frequent updates on existing drafts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Document Status:</strong> Several documents are nearing completion and are ready for working group last call or publication. The chairs urged action to clear the document queue.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Draft Updates:</strong> Several drafts were presented with updates, including:</p>
<ul>
<li>D-ALE for multi-homed traffic.</li>
<li>L2 Gateway Protocol.</li>
<li>EVPN with SRv6 support.</li>
<li>Extended optimized ingress replication.</li>
<li>EVPN First-Hop Security.</li>
<li>Unknown Mac mobility.</li>
<li>EVPN L2 Attributes and communities.</li>
<li>EVPN SRv6 Security</li>
<li>EVPN Route type one and three for bump traffic filtering.</li>
<li>EVPN inter-domain Option B.</li>
<li>SRv6 Anycast and Bypass SIDs</li>
<li>Upstream Designated Forwarder Selection.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>EVPN First-Hop Security (Krishna):</strong> Discussion focused on the use of DHCP snooping and a new route type for handling multi-homing and host mobility. Concerns were raised about altering route reflection rules.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Unknown Mac Mobility (Hari):</strong>  Presentation covered a procedure to improve Mac address scaling by limiting learning to the local network. Discussion included the need for support from all leaf nodes and the introduction of a second sequence counter for intra-network moves.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>EVPN L2 Attributes and Communities (Hari):</strong> Clarifications were presented around route processing, mismatch behavior, signaling primary/backup PEs, and VLAN bundle service. Backward compatibility was a key concern.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>SRv6 Anycast and Bypass SIDs (Shin):</strong>  A new proposal to add A and B flags to SRv6 SIDs. The proposal addresses problems with local protection when using Anycast, but requires extensive review.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>D-ALE for multi-homed traffic:</strong> Author to address comment about I-SID allocation before requesting WG last call.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN with SRv6 support:</strong> Presenter to socialize the draft in SPRING WG.</li>
<li><strong>Extended optimized ingress replication:</strong> Request for last call.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN First-Hop Security:</strong>  Authors to clarify how the router reflector is changing the attributes. To be socialized in IDR.</li>
<li><strong>Unknown Mac Mobility:</strong>  Authors to consider announcement rules rather than counters.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN L2 Attributes and Communities:</strong> Working Group Last Call requested.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN SRv6 Security</strong> Request working group adoption</li>
<li><strong>EVPN Route type one and three for bump traffic filtering</strong>: Perform working group adoption call.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN inter-domain Option B</strong>: Authors to address the issue related to the mass with draw as mentioned by Sasha.</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 Anycast and Bypass SIDs</strong>: Further discussion needed on use cases and alternate solutions.</li>
<li><strong>Upstream Designated Forwarder Selection</strong>: Working Group adoption requested.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Chairs will create an action plan with Matthew to schedule adoption calls.</li>
<li>Authors to address feedback received during presentations and on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Chairs to actively manage the document queue and ensure progress on adopted drafts.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
