<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="cdni.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-CDNI-20230327-0400">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 27 Mar 2023 04:00</p>
<h1>cdni</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This meeting focused on reviewing working group documents and new submissions related to CDN Interconnect (CDNI). Discussions centered on delegated credentials, triggers, capacity advertisement extensions, cash control metadata, secret exchange and a new proposal for footprint extensions.  Several action items were identified related to updating and reviewing drafts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Delegated Credentials:</strong> Clarification on the scope and purpose of the <code>CiDedicatedCredentials</code> and <code>MriDedicatedCredential</code> objects, particularly regarding expiry and renewal, and the announcement of maximum credential support. Concern was raised regarding push vs. triggered pull.</li>
<li><strong>CDNI Triggers:</strong>  Discussion on changes to the triggers draft, including renaming &quot;type&quot; to &quot;action,&quot; adding a &quot;triggers back list,&quot; and adding a generic &quot;engineer extension&quot; list for special execution instructions.  Considerations around the order of &quot;specs&quot; in the trigger object and the handling of duplicates were raised.</li>
<li><strong>Capacity Advertisement Extensions:</strong> Discussion on the removal of the &quot;scope&quot; object and clarification on the configuration property within the telemetry source object. Interoperability concerns regarding the lack of definition for the configuration property were discussed.</li>
<li><strong>Cash Control Metadata:</strong> Discussion on configuration options for setting cash control between UC and DC. This include discussion on I cash policy, negative responses, stall content caching, computing hash key and finally cash bypass policy object.</li>
<li><strong>Secret Exchange:</strong> Discussion on the objects being introduced to exchange sensitive data between CDN components.</li>
<li><strong>Footprint Extensions:</strong> A proposal to extend Fc I to advertise footprints separately from capabilities was presented.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Delegated Credentials:</strong>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Christ will update the document based on feedback received, specifically addressing the push language.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Everyone is encouraged to review the updated draft and provide comments on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>CDNI Triggers:</strong>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Everyone should read the draft and provide feedback, focusing on the significant changes made.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Need will make changes to address the comments from the discussion and resubmit the draft.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Capacity Advertisement Extensions:</strong>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Ben will review Kevin's detailed feedback and incorporate it into a new revision of the draft.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Ben to review the language around TB configuration and telemetry example.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Secret Exchange:</strong>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Ben will add usage examples, potentially in an appendix, to provide more context for the objects being defined.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Updated drafts incorporating feedback will be published for delegated credentials, triggers, and capacity advertisement extensions.</li>
<li>Further review and discussion of the updated drafts will occur on the mailing list.</li>
<li>The chairs will assess the maturity of the drafts and determine when working group last calls can be initiated.</li>
<li>Alan's proposal for footprint extensions will be reviewed by the working group, but its suitability will be assessed based on its alignment with the charter.</li>
<li>Milestones will be updated after this meeting to reflect the current status of the drafts.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
