**Session Date/Time:** 27 Mar 2023 00:30

# coinrg

## Summary

The coinrg meeting focused on reviewing existing documents and discussing future directions for the research group. Several drafts were presented, covering topics such as a layer architecture for data-driven coordination, a generic coin framework in control environment, and security considerations for coin-enabled networks. Discussions revolved around the scope of the research, the applicability of the proposed solutions, and the role of the research group in standardizing coin technologies.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Layer Architecture for Data-Driven Coordination:** Discussion centered around the architecture's clarity in representing coin capabilities, the hierarchical relationship between connectivity and compute strata, and the alignment with the scope of Coin.
*   **Generic Coin Framework in Control Environment:** The role of the Coin Research Group (coinrg) in standardization efforts was questioned. Concerns about the critical assessment of prior work within the group were raised. The importance of focusing on research aspects and providing solid research justification for proposed primitives was emphasized. There was discussion about the validity of the research, questions about whether it was prototype based, or not.
*   **Security Considerations for Coin-Enabled Networks:** The discussion involved the security aspects of coin-enabled networks, focusing on the trust domain, key management, and the differences from existing cloud computing security models. It was questioned whether the security challenges were unique to coin or applicable to distributed computing in general.
*   **Data-Driven Coordination of Network Devices:** Research comparing their approch with existing approaches was requested.
*   **Use Cases, Terminology, and Analysis:** A discussion took place about who could take on further research as well as who could manage the documents, and whether that would be the existing authors or someone else. Whether the document needed to evolve or just capture state of the art was also discussed. Also discussed, was that the use case analysis should be going to last call.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Use Cases Draft:** Request a research group last call.
*   **Terminology Draft:** Discuss further how to evolve this document.
*   **Future of Coin Directions Draft:** A discussion about finding a good set of documents, and whether the group felt like they wanted to push things.
*   **Interim Meeting:** Schedule an interim meeting to discuss the evolution of the field since the inception of the group, and to evaluate creative ways to represent the state of the art and guidance for newcomers.

## Next Steps

*   Post the Use Cases draft to the mailing list and request a research last call.
*   Further discuss the future of the Terminology and Directions drafts offline.
*   Schedule an interim meeting between now and July.
