<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="core.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-CORE-20230328-0400">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 28 Mar 2023 04:00</p>
<h1>core Meeting - IETF 116</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This core working group meeting at IETF 116 covered a wide range of topics related to constrained resource environments, including Concise Resource Identifiers (Cli), conditional attributes, key update mechanisms (Kudos), publish-subscribe architectures, DNS over CoAP, and performance measurement.  Individual submissions on CoAP over BLE, CoAP yacht, and a data model for at-hoc SCORE were also presented. The meeting included document status updates, technical discussions, and a brief discussion on the future direction of several drafts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Cli (Concise Resource Identifiers):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Registration of URI schemes as negative integers was discussed. Concerns about the procedural aspects of this registration were raised.</li>
<li>Handling of percent encoding in Cli extensions was discussed. The need for clarity on how to handle CsiIs with unknown extensions was noted.</li>
<li>Discussions on representing empty paths (empty array vs. trailing null) and the need for both representations were documented.</li>
<li>The burden on implementations for strict checking of certain constructs was discussed.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Conditional Attributes:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The discussion centered on whether the document should be informational or standard track. The importance of considering existing implementations (e.g., in K x Iot) and potential conflicts was highlighted.</li>
<li>The clash with the &quot;observe&quot; functionality and a proposal to use resource state projection to address this was discussed.</li>
<li>Cancellation of resource projection registration via URI with conditional attributes was also discussed.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Using Adequate Core Panel Core:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussion and changes related to payload format, context creation, error handling, target attributes, and authentication credential types.</li>
<li>The working group is ready for shepherd review and write-up.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Key Usage Limits for Os and Key Update for Score (Kudos):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Key Usage Limits were separated to a new draft.</li>
<li>Discussion on how a PS can update their score and recipient Ids, using a new core option.</li>
<li>The optionality of end yi them kudos to Cd and how peers can also rely on signalling with the no forward bit was mentioned.</li>
<li>Discussion about preventing deadlocks.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Pubsub:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussions on topic properties, the importance of max subscribers, and the fact that its an authorization error not just the protocol mechanism.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>YANG and CoAP (sid and Kumar):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussion on the sit location mechanism, the challenges with Jane 2 landscape, and the need for a complete set of data notes.</li>
<li>Handling multiple versions of zip files and the option of overriding the old one, to avoid causing problem.</li>
<li>Full data store access and the data node access operation was discussed.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>DNS over CoAP (DoC):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Addressed DNS directorate feedback and clarified terminology. Discussed implementation of DNS push and transport agnosticism.</li>
<li>Started addressing feedback from ten s up, covering performance advantages, T rewriting, and cache optimization.</li>
<li>Discussion to bootstrap dock in a SRV record and also opened a discussion on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>CoAP Platform Performance Measurement:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussions on proxy and safe operations in regards to proxying.</li>
<li>Presentation of different scenarios, including D and Oscar.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>CoAP over BLE:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Introduced a very short header, with tokens similar to what we know from other transports.</li>
<li>The need for discovery topic was discussed and what has to be reviewed by the end user.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Data Model for At-hoc SCORE:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Presentation of an architecture on how to configure security associations.</li>
<li>Presented two cases, the thing has the at hoc score implementation or just score.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Conditional Attributes:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Action Item:  Bill to discuss the informational vs. standard track status with K x Iot and Dms.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Using Adequate Core Panel Core:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Action Item: Jacob to upload the issue to the issue tracker on talk.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Using Adequate Core Panel Core:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Action Item: Chair to discuss with the shepherd review and write-up.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>CoAP Platform Performance Measurement:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The document will move forward with the working group adoption code.</li>
<li>Action Item: Christian to copy with Ipm and point some cautions about traffic.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Cli:</strong> Further discussion on remaining questions on the mailing list and at the next interim meeting.</li>
<li><strong>Conditional Attributes:</strong>  Await outcome of discussions with K x Iot and Dms regarding the document's status.</li>
<li><strong>Sid and Kumar:</strong> Incorporate feedback from discussions and continue development.</li>
<li><strong>All Documents:</strong> Authors to address open pending points and solicit feedback on mailing lists.</li>
<li><strong>Interim Meetings:</strong> The group plans to resume interim meetings every other Wednesday in the European afternoon starting from April twenty six. A confirmation will be sent through the mailing list in one week.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
