<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="drip.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-DRIP-20230328-0630">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 28 Mar 2023 06:30</p>
<h1>drip</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This IETF drip working group meeting covered several key topics, including updates on external activities influencing the group's work, progress on the authentication and registry documents, discussions on DNS Apex considerations, and the potential creation of a new DNS resource record type. The meeting addressed dependencies on external organizations like ICAO and IANA and highlighted the need for broader international participation in the working group.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>External Activities:</strong>
<ul>
<li>FAA contract awarded to On Technologies for broadcast grid implementation.</li>
<li>ICAO's work on device-to-device certificate-based security framework (A2X).</li>
<li>ANSI's updated gaps report on UAS standards.</li>
<li>Field testing of drip receiver application.</li>
<li>Presentation of drip at ICAO trust framework panel.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Authentication Document:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Cleaned up and made more standalone, reducing hard references to the registry document.</li>
<li>Changes reflected in the -30 version, available on GitHub (AtW branch).</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Registry Document:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Added a new section (2.1) outlining supported registration scenarios.</li>
<li>Detailed discussion of serial number formats (Bare, Linked, Generated) based on ANSI CTA 2063-A and RFC 9374.</li>
<li>Apex: The group agreed on using <code>ip6.arpa</code> for debt addresses. The discussion of sn.icao.arpa Apex format for serial numbers resulted in a few important questions needing wider discussion within the IAB and further coordination with IANA, and especially ICAO.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>New Resource Record Type:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Consideration of creating a new DNS resource record type (potentially based on hip) to simplify DNS lookups and avoid multiple queries. A recommendation to create one was inserted to the new version.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Endorsements:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussion on whether the endorsement section should be a separate document and alignment with x509 structures being used by ICAO.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Adam to coordinate sending registry document (dash 09) to DNS directorate for early review.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Address the point that identifiers will probably end up being a matter of nash law a national regulation, not necessarily something that here can decree for everybody, in further versions of the document.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Revisit whether or not the section about endorsements in the drip registry architecture document benefits from being a separate document after a more mature version of the documents exists.</li>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> The group is open to the idea of a new DNS Resource Record Type (potentially a form of HIP).</li>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> The group wants to ensure alignment of endorsements with the trust framework work for ICAO.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Clean up Section 6 (use case processes) and Section 7 (differential access) in the registry document.</li>
<li>Develop and allocate the new resource record type (potentially create a separate draft).</li>
<li>Re-evaluate breaking out endorsements into a separate document.</li>
<li>Backport x509 work from ICAO into the registry document (potentially separate draft).</li>
<li>Address the need to consider national delegation regarding putting identifiers for devices in the domain namespace in the document.</li>
<li>Schedule interim meetings to progress on the registry document.</li>
<li>Working group last call for the Registry document is targeted for 2024-01-18, if possible.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
