<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="lake.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-LAKE-20230330-0030">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 30 Mar 2023 00:30</p>
<h1>lake</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This was a joint session between the LAKE and ACE working groups. The LAKE portion focused on the ad hoc draft, discussions around re-keying, and the Lake charter. The ACE portion covered updates on the pubs up profile, group notification, admin interface, and the D and now also TLS profile. The session included discussions on protocol design, security considerations, and future work items.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>ad hoc draft:</strong> Discussion of changes in versions 18 and 19, including the removal of the pad field, revision of the E syntax, and clarification of terminology. A new error code proposal related to credential identifiers was discussed.</li>
<li><strong>Error Handling:</strong> Debate around the specification of error codes within ad hoc.</li>
<li><strong>Exporter Usage:</strong> Discussion on how the exporter is used, with concerns about key handling, especially related to message three.</li>
<li><strong>COSE Header Parameters:</strong> Discussion of new COSE header parameters for C simple web tokens and CCS, emphasizing the need for security considerations, particularly for verifying public keys.</li>
<li><strong>Lake Traces:</strong> Agreement that the lake traces are ready for a working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Re-Keying:</strong> Discussion of a new P method for re-keying to address identity protection, tracking, and fingerprint printing.</li>
<li><strong>Lake Charter:</strong> Review and discussion of the draft Lake charter, with emphasis on the scope of work and a rephrasing of the text about specifying how to use Ea fields.</li>
<li><strong>ACE Pubs up Profile:</strong> Updates on the profile, including architectural changes, client group communication interface, and the distinction between application groups versus security groups. Also discussion regarding the use of scope and how they are used and implemented in the profile.</li>
<li><strong>ACE Group Notification:</strong> Marco provided a quick update. Discussed the last call and the next steps.</li>
<li><strong>ACE Admin Interface:</strong> Marco provided the summary of the updates in the past months. Discussions regarding the splitting of documents into two with new documents.</li>
<li><strong>ACE OSCAR Profile:</strong> Deal spoke about the ACE OSCAR profile as well as its variants. There are now some discussion on the follow up activities for ACE OSCAR profile and their implementation.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>ad hoc draft:</strong> Include the new error code proposal (P401) unless there are strong objections on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>ad hoc draft:</strong> Include the existing proposal clarifying the proper ways to handle the session keys.</li>
<li><strong>Lake Traces:</strong> Move forward with a working group last call on the lake traces draft, with a two-week last call period.</li>
<li><strong>Lake Charter:</strong> Rephrase the text in the charter regarding specifying how to use Ea fields. The Chairs will work this into the data tracker.</li>
<li><strong>ACE Sd Payload Profile:</strong> A call for adoption for this profile will be had, and one author is willing to lead the effort for completion.</li>
<li><strong>ACE CP transport draft</strong> is under review by paul.</li>
<li><strong>ACE heap draft</strong> is to be revied by the working group.</li>
<li><strong>Confirm the new document from Ace Admin</strong> Francesco Peter prefers not to have the authors for these efforts to be shared.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>LAKE: Start working group last call for the traces draft. Submit the charter to the datatracker.</li>
<li>ACE: Call for adoption for the Sd Payload Profile. Submit and address issues to C p2 transport draft. Review the heat Draft.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
