<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="netconf.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-NETCONF-20230327-0400">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 27 Mar 2023 04:00</p>
<h1>netconf</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The netconf working group meeting at IETF 116 covered a variety of topics, including updates on chartered work group items like HTTP Notify, client server suites, UDP Notify, disputed Notify, tailor-one-dot-three, transaction ID, and tracing mechanisms. The meeting also discussed non-chartered items like Netconf private candidates, young model for netconf event notifications, support provisioning, hostname sequencing, and incident management for phonetic services. Several polls were conducted to gauge working group interest in specific proposals. A key theme was the need for alignment and a coherent framework for transaction ID and tracing related drafts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Netconf Next:</strong> Discussion on initiating work on Netconf Next and associated Github issues, including banner encoding and binary notifications.  The need for volunteers to drive this work forward was emphasized.</li>
<li><strong>UDP Notify Draft:</strong> Clarification of observation domain ID and message ID sequence. Discussion of adding a Udp client/server grouping similar to the TCP client/server suite draft.  A request was made for a working group last call after addressing these points.</li>
<li><strong>Disputed Notify Draft:</strong> Primarily editorial changes.  A request was made for a working group last call, concurrent with UDP Notify.</li>
<li><strong>List Pagination:</strong> Discussion on snapshot recognition and cursor-based sorting.  A poll indicated a lack of strong interest in locale-based sorting, but more concrete examples were requested for the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Netconf with TLS:</strong>  Discussion of changes made to update RC7589 for TLS 1.3.  A shorter last call was suggested due to the scope of the changes, especially the title change.  The upcoming TLS working group discussion on deprecating TLS 1.2 was mentioned.</li>
<li><strong>External Transaction ID:</strong> Presenting the external collection Id for configuration increasing and there was another proposition to do configuration testing from young. Discussion on converging with the test context extension draft, potentially switching from transaction IDs to case IDs. Open questions remain on how to pass client IDs.</li>
<li><strong>Transaction ID, Trace Context, and Private Candidates:</strong> An overview of five related drafts, including the adopted transaction ID draft, configuration trace, W3C trace, private candidates, and existing context drafts. A key focus was on defining a coherent framework for these drafts, ensuring optionality and independent implementability. Aligning terminology and behavior across documents was deemed crucial. Opinions diverged on whether a separate &quot;framework&quot; document was needed, with suggestions ranging from incorporating relationships into existing drafts to creating an architecture document.</li>
<li><strong>Private Candidates:</strong> Discussion on whether the private candidates draft should support RESTCONF. A poll showed a split in the working group. The authors are focusing on definitions and proposed solutions, with examples of conflict resolution.</li>
<li><strong>Netconf Event Notifications and Yang Push Headers:</strong> discussion to move forward with a young model, add network device metrics for identification from the new device as well as revision of module for notification sequencing.</li>
<li><strong>Incident Management for Nano Services:</strong> Presentation of a new draft proposing incident management technology for network services. Discussion on its relationship to alarm information, KPI information, and maintenance information. Feedback was requested, including comparison to the SAM Tetra framework and alignment with the D-MIMO draft in OPS.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>UDP Notify Draft:</strong> Action: Alexa to revise the draft to include a Udp client/server grouping and address Rob Wilson's comments.</li>
<li><strong>List Pagination:</strong> Action: Per to formulate concrete examples of use cases for locale-based sorting and take them to the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Netconf with TLS:</strong> Decision: A shorter (two-week) working group last call will be conducted.</li>
<li><strong>External Transaction ID:</strong> Action: Jean to work on the next version of the draft, incorporating the case ID concept and addressing how to pass client IDs.</li>
<li><strong>Transaction ID and Related Drafts:</strong> Action: Authors of the transaction ID, trace context, and private candidates drafts to collaborate on aligning terminology, use cases, and behavior to create a coherent framework.</li>
<li><strong>Netconf Event Notifications and Yang Push Headers:</strong> The draft is to be progressed with a young model, the working group to participate with a discussion on the list.</li>
<li><strong>Clients server Suite of draft:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Rob Wilson to send in comments from reviews completed.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Mailing list discussions on various topics, including locale-based sorting for list pagination and potential adoption of the Thomas' YANG module and a call for adoption vote.</li>
<li>Continued implementation experience and feedback gathering for the transaction ID drafts.</li>
<li>Collaboration among authors to align terminology and behavior across transaction ID and related drafts.</li>
<li>Publication of the zero-one version of the private candidates draft.</li>
<li>Progress and revisions to drafts will be continued with the working group.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
