<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="pals.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-PALS-20230328-0030">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 28 Mar 2023 00:30</p>
<h1>pals</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This was a joint session of the PALS, MP, and D-net working groups. The main topics included updates on existing drafts, particularly those related to NMP (Network Management Protocol) network actions, and a discussion on the future of the open design team.  The session also included discussions on private line emulation, IoAM (In-situ Operations, Administration, and Maintenance), and segment routing.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Private Line Emulation:</strong> Updates were provided on the &quot;private line emulation&quot; draft.  Sasha Wei raised a question regarding the handling of Ethernet synchronization messages, specifically clock quality information, and whether these messages would be carried transparently.</li>
<li><strong>NMP Design Team:</strong> There was significant discussion on whether to continue the open NMP design team meetings or revert to normal IETF processes (email lists and formal interim meetings).  Pros and cons of both approaches were discussed, including concerns about decision-making authority, communication, inclusivity, and administrative overhead.</li>
<li><strong>NMP Network Actions:</strong> Discussions focused on in-stack vs. post-stack data encoding for NMP network actions. There was debate on whether post-stack data encoding is actually needed, with several participants suggesting a review of existing use cases to determine if in-stack solutions are sufficient. Andrew noted the issue with the IpR of the solution to not adopt it.</li>
<li><strong>IoAM:</strong> Several presentations were related to the use of NMP for IoAM. Greg presented on iDirect Export solution using in-stack data, while Rake presented about solution using post-stack solution.</li>
<li><strong>Segment Routing:</strong> Rake presented an enhancement to the SR (Segment Routing) performance measurement using NMP.</li>
<li><strong>Inspection:</strong> Presentation about Ms inspection, label stack reduction inspection.</li>
<li><strong>Deter Deterministic Traffic:</strong> Discussion around providing support of the determine latecy service using m and a.</li>
<li><strong>Telemetry Trigger:</strong> Discuss of the Telemetry triggger to two bits to do alternate marking.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>NMP Post-Stack Data:</strong> A decision on whether a solution for post data is needed or not was not reached and will be discussed on the mailing list. Community should analyse exisiting use cases to see if it requires posted data.</li>
<li><strong>Open Design Team Future:</strong> The decision to continue the open design team calls or revert to normal working group processes was not reached. The chairs will take the discussion to the mailing list and consider input from the working group.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>NMP Post-Stack Data:</strong> Analysis of existing use cases will be performed to determine the need for a post-stack data solution.</li>
<li><strong>Open Design Team Future:</strong> The working group chairs will solicit further input on the mailing list regarding the future of the open design team meetings.</li>
<li>Authors of the drafts will take into account the various comments received and the necessary updates.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
