<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="pim.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-PIM-20230327-0400">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 27 Mar 2023 04:00</p>
<h1>pim</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The PIM working group meeting in Yokohama covered a wide range of topics related to multicast routing and address allocation. Key discussions included updates on existing drafts, presentations on new protocols like PIM-FRR based on TI-LFA and GAP, and considerations for scaling multicast deployments. The group also discussed the need to update older RFCs like 1112.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>PIM Election Drafts:</strong> Progress needed on existing PIM election drafts.</li>
<li><strong>RFC Status:</strong> Updates on several RFCs approved for publication (register packing, a-start packing, proxy YANG).</li>
<li><strong>BIZ Documents:</strong> Discussion of moving IGMP and MLD to full Internet Standard via BIZ documents.</li>
<li><strong>PIM Light:</strong> Presentation on PIM Light, focusing on point-to-point deployments, TCP interaction, and the need for clarity regarding multi-access considerations.</li>
<li><strong>PIM-FRR based on TI-LFA:</strong> Presentation on a new mechanism for PIM-FRR based on TI-LFA and requests for working group last call</li>
<li><strong>Backup DR:</strong> Presentation on backup DR election and sticky DR behavior with a discussion of interactions with another related draft.</li>
<li><strong>GAP (Group Allocation Protocol):</strong> Presentation on a new decentralized multicast group allocation protocol with discussion of collision resolution, security, and API design.</li>
<li><strong>Zero Config Multicast Address Allocation:</strong> Presentation on a zero-configuration approach to multicast address allocation for layer 2 networks using mDNS.</li>
<li><strong>MLD Proxy with Multi-Streaming Interfaces:</strong> Presentation on supporting multiple interfaces in MLD proxies with different access technologies.</li>
<li><strong>RFC 1112 Update:</strong> Discussion on updating RFC 1112 to remove IGMPv1, apply to IPv6, and incorporate ASM terminology.</li>
<li><strong>Scaling Multi-Cast using Tunnels:</strong> Presentation around how to scale the different dimensions that exist when considering multi-cast networks</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>P2P Policy PING:</strong> Resend a new email requesting early allocation for P2P Policy PING to the ADs and Mp chairs, copying the original request.</li>
<li><strong>PIM Light:</strong> Update the PIM Light draft based on feedback received, clarifying its applicability to point-to-point deployments and addressing multi-access concerns.</li>
<li><strong>PIM-FRR based on TI-LFA:</strong> Take the PIM-FRR draft to the mailing list to determine if there is any outstanding feedback before beginning working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Backup DR:</strong> Analyze the interplay between the sticky DR approach and another draft, and discuss which one works best.</li>
<li><strong>GAP (Group Allocation Protocol):</strong> Need to better explain to other members how to resolve collision</li>
<li><strong>RFC 1112 Update:</strong> Tore to discuss updates with Jim (the AD) regarding process.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Discussions on various topics will continue on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Adoption calls for several drafts will be initiated on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Further testing and development of GAP will be conducted.</li>
<li>Further development and analysis for the Backup DR case will be done</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
