<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="satp.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-SATP-20230331-0030">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 31 Mar 2023 00:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># satp Meeting Minutes

## Summary

This document summarizes the minutes of the Secure Asset Transfer Protocol (satp) working group meeting. The meeting covered the working group's scope, terminology, and three proposed working group documents: architecture, use cases, and the core protocol. Discussions focused on defining the scope, agreeing on terminology, and deciding whether to adopt the three documents as official working group documents.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Scope:** Discussion centered around the initial scope of developing a single protocol for secure one-way transfer of digital assets between networks, agnostic to the technology of the network and the nature of the asset. The scope specifically focuses on gateway-to-gateway transfers.
*   **Terminology:**  The group discussed a draft terminology document to ensure common vocabulary across documents and discussions. Key terms included &quot;digital asset,&quot; &quot;digital asset owner,&quot; &quot;gateway,&quot; and &quot;burning&quot; and &quot;minting.&quot; The definition of &quot;digital asset owner&quot; was debated, specifically the use of the term &quot;legal&quot; and its jurisdictional implications.
*   **Architecture Document:** Thomas presented an update on the architecture document, highlighting the focus on the yellow box (gateway-to-gateway transfer) and the principles of opaque resources and value-agnostic gateways.  The goal is to define a protocol to allow the movement of a value bearing data object, avoiding the double spend problem.
*   **Use Cases Document:** Rama presented the use cases document, showcasing scenarios like central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) and digital artwork transfers. The document highlighted the need for interoperability between different networks and the transfer of digital assets (including tax payments). The group discussed how the document relates to ISO 20022.
*   **Core Protocol Document:** Thomas described the core protocol document, detailing the three-stage flow: lock assertion, receipt, and commitment. The discussion covered the lock assertion message, the asset profile ID, and the burning process. Error and failure handling were raised as important aspects needing further elaboration in the document.
*   **ISO 20022:** The group briefly discussed the relationship between satp and the ISO 20022 standard used for bank transfers. It was noted that ISO 20022 may not handle token assets, and that companies building on distributed ledgers and blockchain need transfer of assets (burning and minting), so existing standards might not apply.
*   **Future Work Items:** Discussion around potential future work items include:
    * Session ID derivation.
    * Gateway identification.
    * Failure management of Gateways.
    * Data Sharing
    * Application interoperability between networks.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Architecture Document Adoption:** The working group agreed to adopt the architecture document as a starting point.
*   **Use Cases Document Adoption:** The working group agreed to adopt the use cases document as a starting point.
*   **Core Protocol Document Adoption:** The working group agreed to adopt the core protocol document as a starting point.
*   **Action Item:** Incorporate a comparison to ISO 20022 into the Use Cases or Architecture document. Volunteers requested to author the section.
*   **Action Item:** Thomas to update the core protocol document to replace &quot;extinguish&quot; with &quot;burn&quot; consistently.
*   **Action Item:** David to provide details on error/failure consequences to be addressed in core protocol.
*   **Action Item:** Update the three documents from the meetings discussions.

## Next Steps

*   Call for adoption on the mailing list for all three documents.
*   Authors to continue working on the documents based on the feedback from the meeting.
*   Discuss future work items in more detail in upcoming interim meetings.
*   Address incorporation of comparison with ISO 20022 in working group communication.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
