**Session Date/Time:** 29 Mar 2023 06:30

# snac

## Summary
The SNAC working group meeting covered updates on the "Stub Networks Auto Configuration" document and a related draft on LAN Prefix Delegation. The discussion focused on soliciting reviews for the stack simple document, the status of the stub router flag document for submission to the SIXMAN working group, and the complexities of LAN prefix delegation, particularly in scenarios where ISPs assign prefix lengths larger than /64.  There were discussions around detecting incorrect configurations, dealing with flakiness, requirements, firewall functionality, service discovery, and roaming.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Stack Simple Document Review:**  A strong call for reviews of the "Stub Networks Auto Configuration" document was made. Participants were encouraged to flag issues, comment on clarity, and identify potential gaps in the document's coverage.
*   **Stub Router Flag Document:** The draft-way-raq-router-flag document is nearing readiness for submission to SIXMAN. A minor editorial change (moving applicability statement before description) was suggested. Discussion focused on whether the stub router flag should only be used when joining an infrastructure network or advertised on stub networks as well. A preference for the "joiner model" (using the flag only when joining an infrastructure network) emerged.
*   **Router Flapping:**  Concern was raised about router advertisement flapping. The existing "Router reachability detection" section (5.1.2.2) which utilizes unicast probes, was reviewed.  Tim Winners suggested considering scenarios involving wireless mesh networks and packet loss and to add text to reflect how to deal with that in the document.
*   **Requirements Section:** Suggestion to include a requirements section in the stack simple document was discussed, but there were some reservations.
*   **Firewall Functionality:**  The need for firewall functionality was raised. The consensus was that including a firewall in the base document was out of scope but that future work could explore isolation between IoT and main networks.
*   **Service Discovery:**  The mandatory nature of SRV records for service discovery was discussed.  Alternatives and potential future work were considered.
*   **LAN Prefix Delegation:** Tim Chown presented a draft to address ISPs assigning prefixes larger than /64. The proposal involves the edge router handing out /64 prefixes and using relay agents for DHCP messages.
*   **Relay Agents:** Discussion on what happens when using relay agents, especially having them installing routes and dealing with potential flapping.
*   **Roaming:** Discussion about how to handle the cases where the routers get plugged in different places, and how to handle renumbering.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **ACTION:** Ted Lemon and Jonathan Way to review stack simple document for gaps before the next meeting.
*   **ACTION:**  Ted Lemon to update the stub router flag document to move applicability statement before the description.
*   **ACTION:**  Ted Lemon to consider adding some text about how the architecture deals with router flapping.
*   **ACTION:**  Ted Lemon to add state machine for Net64 before IETF 119.
*   **ACTION:** Tim Chown to incorporate feedback on the LAN Prefix Delegation draft, particularly around adding ISP specific behaviors in regards to DHCP and Pd requests.
*   **ACTION:** Tim Chown to ensure SNAC is on CC when posting a new version of the v6 ops prefix delegation draft.

## Next Steps

*   The "Stub Networks Auto Configuration" document needs more reviews.
*   The "Router Flag" document needs informal working group last call and needs to be brought to SIXMAN.
*   Continue working on draft-chown-v6ops-lan-prefix-delegation.
