<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="wg-chairs-forum-for-wg-chairs-only.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF116-EMODIR-20230329-0245">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 29 Mar 2023 02:45</p>
<h1>WG Chairs Forum (For WG Chairs Only)</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This meeting of the WG Chairs Forum at IETF 116 focused on two main topics: GitHub label usage and the New Participants Program. Spencer presented on efforts to standardize GitHub labels for WG use, while [Name] provided an update on the reorganized New Participants Program, including its goals, activities, and areas for potential improvement. The discussion included feedback from WG chairs on the program's effectiveness and suggestions for enhancing the onboarding experience for new participants.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>GitHub Labels:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Spencer initiated a discussion on the potential for standardizing GitHub labels used by working groups. The discussion highlighted the lack of a &quot;right&quot; list and the varying needs of different working groups.</li>
<li>Concerns were raised about the limited audience for these labels and the potential for &quot;label explosion.&quot;</li>
<li>It was suggested that WGs should document their expected workflow for GitHub interaction rather than relying on standardized labels.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>New Participants Program:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The program has been reorganized and will be renamed to the Education and Outreach Directorate.</li>
<li>The mission is to enhance productivity, diversity, and inclusion in the IETF, ultimately leading to better technical standards.</li>
<li>Activities target potential/new participants, current participants, and leadership.</li>
<li>Michelle Cotton is the new participant ambassador.</li>
<li>Feedback from new participants indicates that the IETF is becoming a more welcoming environment.</li>
<li>Areas for improvement include posting agendas earlier and providing more engagement between meetings.</li>
<li>Discussion on whether the &quot;new participant&quot; tag is self-appointed.</li>
<li>Suggestion to bring back the newcomers leadership things before the social.</li>
<li>The importance of the hackathon was emphasized as an opportunity to engage newcomers.</li>
<li>Suggestion to create a list of low-hanging fruit issues for newcomers.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Spencer:</strong> Will report back if his collection of useful GitHub labels looks useful.</li>
<li><strong>WG Chairs:</strong> Encouraged to share any frustration with the guides program as issues feature requests in the repository for the guides tool.</li>
<li><strong>WG Chairs:</strong> Encouraged to think about things they might need help with that would be appropriate for newcomers.</li>
<li><strong>Volunteers:</strong> The WG is looking for volunteers to help with the Working Group Chairs Forum.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>The Education and Outreach Directorate name change will be implemented in the data tracker.</li>
<li>Durham will send out a mail on the mailing list about the wiki page for outreach.</li>
<li>A side meeting is planned on Friday to brainstorm materials needed to bring in the next generation of IETF participants.</li>
<li>Greg will present the new version of the working group chairs training at a later date.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
