**Session Date/Time:** 07 Nov 2023 08:30

# cdni

## Summary

The CDNI working group met at IETF 118 in Prague. The meeting covered updates on several working group drafts, including capacity extensions, delegated credentials, and RFC 8007bis. The group also discussed new draft proposals related to metadata models, expression language, processing stages, and logging extensions. A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to discussing the adoption of new drafts and addressing open issues from previous reviews.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **RFC 8006 Errata:** An errata submitted against RFC 8006 regarding time windows was discussed. It was decided to mark it as "hold for document update" as it corrects an example without altering the core implementation.
*   **Capacity Capability Advertisement Extensions:** The draft is nearing completion. A question remains about the IANA registry.
*   **Delegated Credentials:** Security review prompted changes related to encryption of private properties. Awaiting confirmation from the security reviewer after changes are reflected in the document.
*   **RFC 8007bis:** IANA comments require updates to the text to differentiate between actions for IANA and general text. A plan for mid-December release of version 10 was proposed.
*   **Protected Secrets Metadata:** Discussions centered around the potential redundancy of FCI objects and whether MI objects can be used directly as capability types. Decided to take it to the mailing list to discuss further.
*   **Cash Control Metadata:** Addressed feedback, particularly regarding the "as is" policy and the revalidate/refresh property. Proposing working group last call.
*   **Edge Control Metadata:** Changes were made based on review comments, including adjustments to the Micro Origin Policy and clarification of the Allow List property.
*   **Metadata Expression Language (MEL):**  There was discussion of the scope and if the draft is too generic.  A show of hands indicated interest.
*   **Processing Stages:**  Also a topic of discussion to see if it fits in the charter. A show of hands indicated interest.
*   **Logging Extensions:** New draft presented covering log formats, data fields, transport mechanisms, and privacy considerations. 
*   **Cash Management Interface:** A new approach to the cash management interface effort was introduced. Chris Lewman raised some concerns about potential overlaps with related work in the HTTP best working group.
*   **Named Footprint:** The name footprint draft has been resubmitted and will be on the mailing list for discussion.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **RFC 8006 Errata:** Mark errata as "hold for document update."
*   **Capacity Capability Advertisement Extensions:**  Ben to address Ayanna Registry question. Chairs to send out a last call notice on the mailing list.
*   **Delegated Credentials:** Kristoff to ping Mike on the list, and address Sanjay's comments, and produce a new version.
*   **RFC 8007bis:** Need to add Alan's comments into the document.
*   **Protected Secrets Metadata:** Further discussion on FCI object redundancy to take place on the mailing list.
*   **Cash Control Metadata:** Encourage working group to review the draft.
*   **MEL and Processing Stages:** Chairs to discuss scope and charter relevance with Francesca.
*   **Logging Extensions:** WG to review the logging extension.

## Next Steps

*   Chairs will examine adoption requests for the new drafts (MEL, Processing Stages, Logging).
*   Participants are encouraged to review drafts and provide feedback on the mailing list.
*   Address Alan's comments for RFC8007bis
*   Alan resubmit version 1 of name footprint for review.
