<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="cfrg.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-CFRG-20231109-1400">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 09 Nov 2023 14:00</p>
<h1>CFRG Meeting - IETF 118 Prague</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The CFRG meeting at IETF 118 in Prague covered updates on several active documents, including VDAF, BBS signatures, AED proxy, and new research on AAD properties and a new Verifiable Distributed Aggregation Function (VDAF) called MasTic.  Discussions also centered on RSA guidance and batch signatures.  Several documents are nearing research group last call.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>VDAF (Verifiable Distributed Aggregation Function):</strong>  Chris presented updates, including optimizations for IDPF, and a move from Shake to Turbo Shake.  The editors are considering a couple of breaking changes. Open issues include IN considerations and editorial work. Simon Fee Program questioned the maturity of Poplar compared to Prio and whether multiple implementations are needed.</li>
<li><strong>BBS Signatures:</strong> Vasilis discussed updates to the draft. The main changes are factoring the draft to separate proof operations and separating main operations into high-level API. He proposed a new proof generation procedure from 2016 SDL. A separate document for blind BBS signatures was proposed. The group asked about specific use cases in mind for blind BBS signatures in the IETF or outside.</li>
<li><strong>AED (Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data) Proxy:</strong> Andre provided an update on the AED proxy draft. Samuel Lucas helped point out that the draft only covered key commitment before and helped provide a roadmap, and he said that it is really interesting that commitment had different applications. Individuality is a topic being worked on but presents challenges as it's an entirely different approach to defining AED security.</li>
<li><strong>Impact of Subtle AAD Differences:</strong> Alex presented research on the impact of subtle AAD differences in protocol security, focusing on automated analysis of protocols and limitations of attacker models.</li>
<li><strong>MasTic (New VDAF):</strong> Dimitris presented MasTic, a new VDAF, focusing on one-hot verifiability and path verifiability to defend against malicious clients.</li>
<li><strong>RSA Guidance:</strong> Norman talked about the blanket duplication of PKCS 1 version 1.5. New improvements to timing side channel epics, recommendation about, most common leakage sources, and about implicit rejection for the KCS 1 version 15.</li>
<li><strong>Batch Signatures:</strong> David introduced a draft on batch signatures using Merkel trees to improve throughput, aiming for a generic solution applicable to various signature algorithms. Feedback was requested.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>VDAF:</strong> Study the security implications of optimizing IDPF where a little bit of security is sacrificed in more detail.</li>
<li><strong>BBS Signatures:</strong> Discuss whether blind signature functionality should be a separate document or included in the main draft.</li>
<li><strong>RSA Guidance:</strong> Contact the chairs to discuss bringing the draft to an adoption call.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>VDAF:</strong> Editors to continue addressing open issues and seek reviews.</li>
<li><strong>BBS Signatures:</strong> Reviewers need to review the draft after it's updated to include a new proof generation procedure.</li>
<li><strong>AED Proxy:</strong> Andre to continue working on differentiability and incorporating feedback on the draft.</li>
<li><strong>MasTic:</strong> Continue evaluations and full security analysis in a forthcoming paper. The presenters will provide an apples to apples comparison of MasTic vs Poplar.</li>
<li><strong>Batch Signatures:</strong> Refine the draft and gather use cases.</li>
<li><strong>Opaque and CPACE:</strong> Start the resource group plus calls really soon.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
