<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="dispatch.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-DISPATCH-20231106-0830">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 06 Nov 2023 08:30</p>
<h1>dispatch</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This meeting covered four presentations. The first presentation discussed R5N, a distributed hash table, and its potential standardization within the IETF. The second presentation introduced a proposal for extending the JSON and CSV formats with named and typed values (NTV). The third presentation advocated for the creation of a state synchronization working group. The last presentation proposed a standardized method for reporting junk mail via DNS records. The meeting also included a brief overview of the upcoming area restructuring and a presentation of a new topic proposal on collective communication.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>R5N Distributed Hash Table:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussion focused on whether a working group would be required and if there's sufficient community interest.</li>
<li>Feedback from routing working group was minimal and improvements have been made since then.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>JSON and CSV Extension (NTV):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Raised concerns about potential overlap with existing solutions like JSON Schema.</li>
<li>Concerns about potential re-invention of wheels.</li>
<li>The Seabor community may not be the right place for this to land</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>State Synchronization Working Group:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Several participants expressed skepticism about the possibility of solving a &quot;generalized&quot; state synchronization problem.</li>
<li>Suggestion to approach formal methods research group and to focus on specific applications like HTTP.</li>
<li>The option of an IRTF research group was debated.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Junk Mail Reporting via DNS:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Proposal to standardize a mechanism for routing junk mail reports via DNS records similar to existing practices with DECOM.</li>
<li>Discussion about potential overlap with existing mechanisms of feedback.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Area Restructuring:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Overview of art restructuring was presented.</li>
<li>Feedback on area names would be considered.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Collective Communication:</strong>
<ul>
<li>A collective communication is an interprocess communication model that plays a key role in, high performance computing and, modern Tributed AI training workflows.</li>
<li>Proposed Collective communication optimization as a cross-layer concern, spanning application, transport, and networking areas.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>R5N:</strong> Need to demonstrate a wider community interest before forming a working group. The presenters were encouraged to continue their work and look for adoption.</li>
<li><strong>JSON and CSV Extension (NTV):</strong> There was no clear support for taking this work forward within the IETF. More feedback should be sought from JSON schema.</li>
<li><strong>State Synchronization Working Group:</strong> The meeting participants lean toward the suggestion of an IRTF research group rather than a working group.</li>
<li><strong>Junk Mail Reporting via DNS:</strong> Engage Mogg and get more solid participation. Alexis should try to engage more of Mogg to solidify adoption of a proposed working group. Murray agreed to help, but wants to see commitment.</li>
<li><strong>Collective Communication:</strong> More discussions with other working groups would be needed to explore the proposed implementation.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>R5N:</strong> Seek potential adopters and expand the community.</li>
<li><strong>JSON and CSV Extension (NTV):</strong> Engage with JSON Schema community.</li>
<li><strong>State Synchronization Working Group:</strong> To consider a IRTF research group.</li>
<li><strong>Junk Mail Reporting via DNS:</strong> Alexis to coordinate with Mogg and get more commitment.</li>
<li><strong>Collective Communication:</strong> Presenters will hold a side meeting on Thursday to foster further discussion and contribution.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
