**Session Date/Time:** 07 Nov 2023 16:00

# dnsop

## Summary
This DNSOP meeting covered several topics including hackathon updates, domain control validation, generalized notifications, and DNS solutions for isolated networks. The discussions focused on the technical details of proposed solutions and their applicability to real-world scenarios.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Hackathon Update:** Discussed the "Delek" record as a potential evolution of NS records, focusing on extensibility and security through signing. It aims to improve delegation mechanisms within DNS and allow operators to modify their own parameters.
*   **Domain Control Validation Draft:**  Updates on the domain control validation draft, including tighter requirements for token generation and more detailed treatment of delegated domain control validation. Discussion around domain boundaries, public suffixes and validation record formats.
*   **Generalized Notify:** Presentation on the generalized notify draft, outlining potential solutions for locating where to send notifications or updates. The discussion focused on determining appropriate RR types (new RR type vs. SVCB) and queue names to query.
*   **DNS for Isolated Networks:**  Presentation on a draft addressing DNS resolution in isolated networks, such as space-based networks. Various approaches were discussed including pre-walking names, prefetching zones, and creating special zones.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Domain Control Validation Draft:** Hold off on working group last call until discussions with CAP forum about account identifier implementation are resolved.
*   **Generalized Notify:**  The working group needs to decide whether to use a new record type or SVCB and the queue name to query for.
*   **DNS for Isolated Networks:** Authors to consider incorporating feedback related to real-world operational experience with isolated networks, traffic profiling and alternative solutions.

## Next Steps

*   Follow up on the Hackathon discussion about the "Delek" record design.
*   Continue discussions with the CAP forum regarding the Domain Control Validation draft.
*   Further discuss generalized notifications and resolution of the RR type and queue name questions.
*   Mark to continue working on the "DNS for Isolated Networks" draft, taking into account feedback from the working group.
*   Stuart will present the QD counts document on Friday.
*   Peter Thomas will present on DNS dynamic updates on Friday.


---

**Session Date/Time:** 10 Nov 2023 08:30

```markdown
# dnsop

## Summary

The dnsop working group meeting covered a range of topics including updates on existing drafts, discussions about new proposals related to delegation management, compact denial of existence, SVCB/DANE, and DNS over COAP.  The meeting also addressed the status of several drafts in the editor's queue and those undergoing working group last call.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Draft-ietf-dnsop-failure-to-communicate:** Warren discussed the handling of a draft on signature algorithms that was initially adopted by DNSOP but may now proceed through the IESG due to security area considerations. Concerns about communication failures were raised and addressed.
*   **DNIS SEC Validator Requirements:** The chairs announced the decision to park the document due to a lack of consensus, and the authors' intention to submit it to the independent stream.
*   **Dean insect bootstrapping document:**  Tim emphasized the need for positive support from the working group for the document to proceed, even with existing implementations.
*   **Dynamic Update for Delegation Management (draft-hall-dns-delegation-management):** Johan presented a proposal for using dynamic DNS updates to automate delegation management.  Discussions centered around its potential benefits, security considerations, and applicability to different types of parents (registries vs. others). An interim meeting was suggested to delve deeper into the complexities.
*   **8109bis and DNSSEC Trust Anchor RC updates:** Paul Hoffman provided updates on the status of these drafts, emphasizing the importance of community review and support.  The need to update the trust anchor file and its implications for algorithm rollvers were highlighted.
*   **Compact Denial of Existence (draft-ietf-dnsop-compact-denial-of-existence):** Shuman provided an update on the draft, including a discussion on the usage of NXNAME and ENT pseudo-types, the proper handling of explicit queries for NXNAME, and the potential for restoring the NXDOMAIN RCODE using a new EDNS flag.
*   **SVCB/DANE (draft-ietf-dnsop-svcb-dane):** Ben presented updates to the draft on using DANE with SVCB records, including a discussion of unknown key share attacks and the relationship to the Deleg record discussion.
*   **Proxy Authoritative Server:** Philip presented a draft on a remote authoritative server architecture.
*   **JSON format for DNS messages and records (draft-stastny-dns-json):** Libor presented the drafts covering the JSON format for DNS records and messages.
*   **3901bis:** Momoca asked the group if they agree to update the 3901bis draft, as well as discussed changes to the draft. The group had concerns with the draft.
*   **Domain Registrar Practices:** Scott presented issues associated with delegation titles

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Action Item:** Chairs to schedule an interim meeting to discuss the Dynamic Update for Delegation Management proposal.
*   **Action Item:** Authors of the Dean insect bootstrapping document to await further feedback from the working group.
*   **Action Item:**  Community to review and provide feedback on the 8109bis and DNSSEC Trust Anchor RC drafts.
*   **Decision:** To proceed with the NXNAME pseudo-type for Compact Denial of Existence and retire ENT.
*   **Action Item:** Shuman to reconsider the handling of explicit NXNAME queries based on feedback received.
*   **Action Item:** Community to review and provide feedback on the SVCB/DANE draft.
*   **Action Item:** Community to review and provide feedback on the remote authoritative server architecture draft.
*   **Action Item:** Community to review and provide feedback on the JSON format for DNS messages and records draft.
*   **Action Item:** Community to review and provide feedback on the 3901bis draft.
*   **Action Item:** Scott to start a new mailing list for the draft.

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussions on the mailing lists for all drafts.
*   Prepare for working group last calls for documents that are ready.
*   Schedule an interim meeting for the delegation management proposal.
*   Contact the DNS directorate for reviews of relevant drafts.
