<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="drip.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-DRIP-20231107-1430">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 07 Nov 2023 14:30</p>
<h1>drip</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This DRIP working group meeting covered implementation updates, particularly focusing on drone ID and key factories, discussions on DNS integration and security, and considerations for future work including interoperability with other aviation standards. The meeting also included discussions on adopting new work items and expanding the scope of the DRIP charter.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Implementation Updates:</strong> Andre provided updates on the implementation of drone ID, key factories, and authentication drafts, including challenges related to DNS integration and OpenSSL version updates.</li>
<li><strong>UTM Integration:</strong> Vivin presented work on integrating DRIP into UTM (Unmanned Aircraft System Traffic Management) systems, specifically as part of the surveillance supplementary data service provider.</li>
<li><strong>Registries Document:</strong> Adam discussed updates to the registries document, including the removal of the serial number proposal into a separate document and the structure of the debt resource record.</li>
<li><strong>DNS Delegation:</strong> Jim provided an update on the status of DNS prefix delegation, including agreements with IANA to operate the registry and the need for a designated expert (Jim) to review delegation requests and liaise with ICAO.</li>
<li><strong>DKI and PKI Integration:</strong> Bob presented a separate DKI (DRIP Key Infrastructure) document with the intent of adopting it as a working group document. The purpose of this document is to address the implementation of debt support, and how it relates to international legal standing and integration with ICAO PKI, as well as other relevant industry organizations such as ASTM. Concerns were raised about adoption given limited implementers.</li>
<li><strong>Future Work and Charter Scope:</strong> Discussions arose about the need to stay current with industry trends (e.g. network remote ID), potential revisions to the DRIP charter, and the importance of broader community involvement and collaboration.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item (Bob):</strong>  Liaise with ICAO to establish a point of contact for verifying national aviation authority requests for DNS prefix delegations.</li>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> The serial number proposal will be moved out of the main registries document into a separate document.</li>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> The cert resource record is deprecated and will be replaced by the debt resource record for managing certificate information.</li>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> Regarding adopting the DKI draft, no decision was taken at this time. The draft can continue as a support document instead of a working group document.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Adam to publish draft-14 of the registries document incorporating discussed changes.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list regarding the adoption of new work items and potential charter revisions.</li>
<li>Encourage broader participation from industry vendors and stakeholders.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
