**Session Date/Time:** 06 Nov 2023 12:00

```markdown
# httpapi

## Summary

This was the second httpapi working group session at IETF 118. The session covered updates on several drafts including Yamal media types, link template header fields, and problem details.  There were presentations and discussions around API catalog, byte range patch, link hints, rest API media types, authlink relations, item potency key, rate limiting headers, relative Jason Pointer, and the deprecation header. Key decisions were made regarding the deprecation header and splitting the rest API media types document.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Yamal Media Type:** Currently in RFC editor queue and awaiting IESG processing, revealed to be awaiting an oversight.
*   **Link Template Field:** Moving quickly through the process with two open issues related to internationalization.
*   **Problem Details:**  Now RFC 9457.
*   **API Catalog:**  Discussion around using a well-known URI, the value of a standardized format vs. allowing implementer choice, and the possibility of multiple catalogs for private/public APIs. A GitHub repository is to be created.
*   **Byte Range Patch:** Focused on representing indefinitely long writes, specifically the use of the content-range field.  The possibility of a new "content offset" header was discussed. Overlap with resumable uploads draft was noted.
*   **Link Hints:**  A specification for pre-composed target attributes for links.  An issue was raised about the use of the word "format" to list media types.
*   **Rest API Media Types:** Discussion on splitting the document into two separate specifications for Open API and JSON Schema media types, respectively.
*   **Authlink Relations:** Document has expired and needs an update. The GitHub repo is empty.
*   **Item Potency Key:**  Review of a PR from Daryl. David Benjamin to review.
*   **Rate Limiting Headers:** Discussion on adding a policy identifier, using SF items, and formalizing quota units and scopes. The potential for a parameter registry and interaction with HTTP caching were also discussed.
*   **Relative Jason Pointer:** Discussion on adopting the document. Should communicate with JSON Path working group.
*   **Deprecation Header:** A decision was made to proceed with standardizing the deprecation header using structured fields for the date, rather than a broader "lifecycle" header.
*  **Directorate Reviews:** Reminded the working group of the availability of directorate reviews for drafts.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Yamal Media Type:** To be prioritized and completed by RFC editor.
*   **API Catalog:** Create a GitHub repo in the httpapi org and migrate the current draft over.
*   **Rest API Media Types:**  Split the document into two specifications.  Roberto to be consulted on this decision.
*   **Authlink Relations:**  Ask Evert to submit an updated draft.
*   **Item Potency Key:** Sanjay to address editorial issues, push a new version, and David Benjamin to review Daryl's PR.
*   **Rate Limiting Headers:** Daryl to take feedback back to Roberto and the list regarding quota units, scopes, and registry.
*   **Deprecation Header:** The working group will standardize the deprecation header with a structured field for the date.
*   **Relative Jason Pointer:** The chairs will communicate with the JSON path group.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to update drafts based on meeting discussions.
*   Further discussion on mailing list for various topics.
*   Chairs to follow up on action items.
```