<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="jmap.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-JMAP-20231107-0830">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 07 Nov 2023 08:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># jmap Session

## Summary

The jmap session covered several documents and working group items, including jmap Sieve, sharing, contacts, calendars, s MIME sender, tasks, and portability.  A significant portion of the discussion revolved around S/MIME sender extensions, the proposed re-chartering of the EXTRA working group to handle broader email-related work, and auto-configuration. There were discussions on potential adoption calls for several drafts and updates to milestones.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **jmap Sieve:**  Ready for submission to ASG.
*   **Sharing, Contacts, Calendars:** Nearing last call, with discussion of JS Contact and JS Calendar dependencies.  Robert noted that JS Calendar Biz is not blocking.
*   **S/MIME Sender:** Debate between a simpler current version and a more extensible alternative.  Discussion about whether this should be a property of the message object or an argument to email set.  Ken emphasized chaining use cases. York highlighted the need for operational parameters and property. The group decided on experimenting with a more flexible approach, moving it to email set parameters.
*   **jmap Tasks:** Update and synchronization with jmap calendars are needed. No major roadblocks.
*   **jmap Portability:** Request for adoption call on the main draft and related extensions (debug logging, backend info, rest mapping).
*   **EXTRA Re-chartering:**  Discussion about expanding the charter to handle a wider range of email-related topics. Debate about merging EXTRA and JMAP or creating a more general &quot;email dumping ground&quot; working group.  Ron and Marie to work on proposed charter text.
*   **I'm at Gem of Access:** Revision needed to re-add security considerations.
*   **RFC 6855 (UTF8 Addresses):**  Ben proposed removing the UTF8 addresses flag. The consensus seems to be that the flag is useless. Discussion about its original purpose and problems around the implementation of EAI in IMAP clients. Further discussion planned over lunch.
*   **IMAP Puskeys:** Discussion about adoption and applicability with IMAP, also raised the non-interactive authentication challenge. Moved to the Kitten working group.
*   **IMAP Your ID Only:**  Small update related to reporting.  Ready for working group last call. Lexi to address the issue with the client asking for UID only.
*   **IMAP Message Limits:** Updates based on feedback, including clarifications and exemptions for certain commands.  Discussion about the 1000 message limit (proposed change to &quot;should&quot;). Awaiting Brian's individual comments.
*   **IMAP In Progress:** In working group last call until the end of the week. Discussion about the percentage and having 2 numbers.
*   **Sieve Calendar:** Discussed issues with multiple calendar parts, inline attachments, and leveraging extended list for organizer addresses. Revision and focus on security considerations needed.
*   **List Metadata:** Relatively simple extension. Can be moved to last call next week.
*   **Auto Config:**  Presentation of the proposed format and discovery methods.  Concerns raised about security, URL guessing, and database maintenance. A working group needs to be formed on these features. A new document is needed for the features mentioned for what the thunder bird does.
*   **Big Files:** Proposed new functionality regarding references to external attachments within email.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **jmap Sieve:** Chair to submit to ASG (Ken - December 2023).
*   **Sharing:** Chair to push to working group last call.
*   **Contacts &amp; Calendars:** Neil to update RFC references and Chair to push to working group last call (December 2023).
*   **S/MIME Sender:** Alexie to produce a new version, approaching the right side for parameter by mid-November early December.
*   **jmap Tasks:** Juris to publish a new version.
*   **jmap Portability:** Chair to initiate a call for adoption for all four portability documents.
*   **EXTRA:** Ron and Marie to work on proposed re-charter text.
*   **I'm at Gem of Access:** Marie to publish a new draft with security considerations re-added.
*   **RFC 6855 (UTF8 Addresses):** Discussed in lunch.
*   **IMAP Puskeys:** Move to Kitten working group.
*   **IMAP Your ID Only:** Address the issue with the client asking for UID only. Chair to push to last call.
*   **IMAP Message Limits:** Retain SHOULD for 1000 message limit. Chair to push to last call. Brian to double-check the technical requirements.
*   **IMAP In Progress:** Alexis to drop the percentage sign for the next revision. Submit to ISJ after that.
*   **Sieve Calendar:** Ken to revise the document and focused on the issues.
*   **List Metadata:** Chair to move to last call next week.
*   **Auto Config:** Review the document and start adoption call for it.
*   **Big Files:** A working group needs to be formed on these features.

## Next Steps

*   Further discussion and refinement of the EXTRA re-charter proposal.
*   Publication of updated drafts and initiation of adoption calls for relevant documents.
*   Continue coordination between the jmap and other related working groups (e.g., Calex, Kitten, mail core).
*   Check on the documents that require any individual comments.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
