<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="lake.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-LAKE-20231106-1630">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 06 Nov 2023 16:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># lake

## Summary

The Lake working group session at IETF 118 covered the status of several drafts, including ad-hoc, traces, and odds. Implementer feedback was presented on the odds draft. Additionally, two new individual submissions were discussed: one on implementation considerations and another on application process coordination. A draft on grease was also introduced.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Ad-hoc and Traces Drafts:** Status update on ad-hoc and traces drafts currently in the RFC editor queue. A temporary setback with ad-hoc due to an overlap in IANA registrations regarding cozy header maps was discussed and resolved. Test vector updates and invalid trace inclusions were highlighted for the traces draft.
*   **Lake Odds Draft:** Implementer feedback on the Lake Odds draft (zero-touch authorization) was presented, focusing on credential handling (by value vs. by reference), voucher validation, and EAD item processing. Questions were raised about the need for an EAD3 item and the trust model related to ID credentials.
*   **Implementation Considerations Draft:** Discussion on an individual submission outlining implementation considerations for ad-hoc, covering invalidation of sessions and keys, trust models for authentication credentials learned on the fly, and side processing steps for credential validation and EAD item processing. The terminology used for trust levels was questioned.
*   **Application Process Coordination Draft:** Presentation of a draft focused on defining identifiers for application profiles, examples of usage, a canonical representation of profiles in CBOR, and the potential definition of well-known application profiles. Open questions remain regarding the attributes that an application profile should cover.
*   **Grease Draft:** Introduction of a draft proposing the use of &quot;grease&quot; (adding dummy extensions) for ad-hoc to ensure that extension points (EAD items, surface weights) are properly handled by implementations and middleboxes.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Ad-hoc Draft:** Paul will send a mail to the RFC editor to put the ad-hoc draft back in the queue.
*   **Lake Odds Draft:**  Create an issue tracker entry to document the discussion point on the trust of device credentials.
*   **Implementation Considerations Draft:**  Explore additional updates, then do a call for adoption. The terminology used for trust levels in the draft will be reviewed.
*   **Interim Meeting:** Chairs will send a mail to the list to determine preferences for an interim meeting.

## Next Steps

*   The ad-hoc and traces drafts are expected to return to the RFC editor queue shortly.
*   Authors will incorporate feedback into the Lake Odds draft.
*   The chairs will send a mail to the mailing list soliciting feedback on all presented drafts and determining the interest in an interim meeting.
*   Continue discussion on the mailing list for the application process coordination and grease drafts.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
