<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="mediaman.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-MEDIAMAN-20231106-1630">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 06 Nov 2023 16:30</p>
<h1>mediaman</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The mediaman working group meeting covered several topics, including the status of documents sent to the ISG, resolution of discuss issues, and a presentation on multiple suffix registration. A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to a discussion about allowing registration of media types without all suffixes registered, particularly concerning the <code>application/vc+ld+json+jot</code> use case. The working group also touched on community formats, RTP payload formats, and future directions for adopted drafts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>ISG Discuss Issues:</strong> Reviewed and discussed five issues raised by the ISG on the top-level media type document. Agreement reached on addressing most issues, with some requiring further work and review.</li>
<li><strong>Multiple Suffixes Draft:</strong> Manu presented changes to the suffixes draft, including updates to the registration template, IANA considerations, and the requirement for change controller consent when modifying base subtypes.</li>
<li><strong>Suffix Processing Order:</strong> Clarified the processing order of structured suffixes (left to right) and the behavior upon encountering unregistered suffixes or errors.</li>
<li><strong>Media Type Registration Without All Suffixes Registered:</strong> Extensive discussion on allowing media type registration when not all suffixes in the type string are registered, particularly for use cases like <code>application/vc+ld+json+jot</code>. Concerns raised about interoperability and the meaning of unregistered suffixes.  No clear consensus was reached, indicating a need for further discussion on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Community Formats:</strong> Discussed the criteria for community formats, noting the expert's discretion in exceptional circumstances.</li>
<li><strong>RTP Payload Formats:</strong> Addressed the issue of managing RTP payload format registrations and the possibility of adding a flag to the media type registry to indicate RTP payload format status.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>ISG Discuss Issues:</strong> Address the ISG discuss issues on the top-level document, circulate the updated draft, and request ISG approval.</li>
<li><strong>Multiple Suffixes Draft:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Address the open issue of whether skipping levels in the registry is acceptable and take the discussion to the mailing list.</li>
<li>Resolve the <code>application/vc+ld+json+jot</code> use case, potentially involving changes to the media type registration from W3C.</li>
<li>More review would be nice.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Standard Tree draft:</strong> Proceed with working group last call after addressing potential issues raised by the experiment with community format registration. Seek ISG approval for an experimental procedure related to community registrations.</li>
<li><strong>RTP Payload Formats:</strong> Jonathan Lennox to raise the issue of RTP Payload Format Registration in ABT Core working group.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussion on the multiple suffixes draft's open issues, particularly the handling of unregistered suffixes, on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Review and comment on the updated top-level media type document.</li>
<li>Prepare the standard tree document for working group last call.</li>
<li>Follow up on the RTP payload format issue within the ABT Core working group.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
