**Session Date/Time:** 06 Nov 2023 16:30

# mediaman

## Summary
The mediaman working group meeting covered several topics, including the status of documents sent to the ISG, resolution of discuss issues, and a presentation on multiple suffix registration. A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to a discussion about allowing registration of media types without all suffixes registered, particularly concerning the `application/vc+ld+json+jot` use case. The working group also touched on community formats, RTP payload formats, and future directions for adopted drafts.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **ISG Discuss Issues:** Reviewed and discussed five issues raised by the ISG on the top-level media type document. Agreement reached on addressing most issues, with some requiring further work and review.
*   **Multiple Suffixes Draft:** Manu presented changes to the suffixes draft, including updates to the registration template, IANA considerations, and the requirement for change controller consent when modifying base subtypes.
*   **Suffix Processing Order:** Clarified the processing order of structured suffixes (left to right) and the behavior upon encountering unregistered suffixes or errors.
*   **Media Type Registration Without All Suffixes Registered:** Extensive discussion on allowing media type registration when not all suffixes in the type string are registered, particularly for use cases like `application/vc+ld+json+jot`. Concerns raised about interoperability and the meaning of unregistered suffixes.  No clear consensus was reached, indicating a need for further discussion on the mailing list.
*   **Community Formats:** Discussed the criteria for community formats, noting the expert's discretion in exceptional circumstances.
*   **RTP Payload Formats:** Addressed the issue of managing RTP payload format registrations and the possibility of adding a flag to the media type registry to indicate RTP payload format status.

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **ISG Discuss Issues:** Address the ISG discuss issues on the top-level document, circulate the updated draft, and request ISG approval.
*   **Multiple Suffixes Draft:**
    *   Address the open issue of whether skipping levels in the registry is acceptable and take the discussion to the mailing list.
    *   Resolve the `application/vc+ld+json+jot` use case, potentially involving changes to the media type registration from W3C.
    *   More review would be nice.
*   **Standard Tree draft:** Proceed with working group last call after addressing potential issues raised by the experiment with community format registration. Seek ISG approval for an experimental procedure related to community registrations.
*   **RTP Payload Formats:** Jonathan Lennox to raise the issue of RTP Payload Format Registration in ABT Core working group.

## Next Steps
*   Continue discussion on the multiple suffixes draft's open issues, particularly the handling of unregistered suffixes, on the mailing list.
*   Review and comment on the updated top-level media type document.
*   Prepare the standard tree document for working group last call.
*   Follow up on the RTP payload format issue within the ABT Core working group.
