<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="mpls.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-MPLS-20231109-1200">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 09 Nov 2023 12:00</p>
<h1>mpls</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The MPLS working group session covered several topics, including status updates on existing documents, presentations on new draft proposals, and discussions surrounding the direction of MPLS Network Actions (M&amp;A). Key presentations focused on SPP picking for SMPLs pass segments, stamp encapsulation in MPLS networks, use cases for M&amp;A, MPLS encapsulation for deterministic latency network actions, a YANG data model for MPLSTP/MPLST topology, and private line emulation.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>SPP Picking for SMPLs Pass Segment:</strong>  Discussion on a draft defining sub-TLVs for identifying MPLS policies, candidate passes, and segment lists. The chairs noted the request for adoption and would decide accordingly. The progress of the spring draft was clarified with the document on the next Telechat.</li>
<li><strong>Stamp Encapsulation in MPLS Networks:</strong> Presentation of a draft encapsulating STAMP for MPLS pseudowires. Use cases for gas type without IP/UDP header and the inclusion of MPLS LSPs were discussed. Concerns around VCCV type 2 support were addressed.  The chairs were asked for working group adoption. The IPPM was alerted about the document and there was no objection.</li>
<li><strong>M&amp;A Use Cases Document:</strong> Review of the document analyzing motivations for MPLS network action. Discussion on merging with a framework document and the relevance of certain use cases, especially those related to DetNet.  The chairs indicated a plan to determine the next steps for M&amp;A. It was suggested to publish the document. The discussion included a statement from the DetNet Co-chair.</li>
<li><strong>MPLS Encapsulation for Deterministic Latency Network Action:</strong> Presentation of a draft for MPLS M&amp;A to support DetNet use cases. The discussion included the DLA applied to Detnet OEM packets, and whether a consideration should be made for consideration be given.</li>
<li><strong>YANG Data Model for MPLSTP/MPLST Topology:</strong>  Update on the progress of the draft, aligned with the draft on the Tarek, Gitab. A request for adoption was asked from Ds working group.</li>
<li><strong>Private Line Emulation:</strong> Updates on private line emulation drafts, with focus on both data plane and signaling aspects. Signaling via LDP and BGP was mentioned. There was no specific request to the MPLS working group.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>SPP Picking for SMPLs Pass Segment:</strong> Chairs to consider adoption.</li>
<li><strong>Stamp Encapsulation in MPLS Networks:</strong> Chairs to consider adoption.</li>
<li><strong>M&amp;A Use Cases Document:</strong> Update the document, specifically addressing the concerns raised by the DetNet Co-chair. Seek feedback from the DetNet group as a whole.</li>
<li><strong>Chairs (Adrian and Nick):</strong> Establish a concrete plan with dates for moving M&amp;A requirements and solutions work forward.</li>
<li><strong>Minute takers:</strong> Send out minutes for review by attendees.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors of drafts to address feedback received during the session.</li>
<li>Chairs to consider adoption of discussed documents.</li>
<li>Chairs to determine and communicate a timeline for progressing M&amp;A work.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
