<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="opsawg.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-OPSAWG-20231106-1200">Recording 1</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-OPSAWG-20231108-1200">Recording 2</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 06 Nov 2023 12:00</p>
<h1>opsawg</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The opsawg meeting at IETF 118 covered several topics, including updates on RFC publications, adopted working group documents, and presentations on drafts related to IPFIX extensions, policy-based network control, data manifests, network packet loss mitigation, incident management, data provenance, and telemetry data storage. The meeting also featured discussion of side meetings and a reminder to provide feedback for the nomcom process.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>RFC Status:</strong> Several new RFCs have been published, and multiple documents are nearing completion for final publication, including SRv6 and related drafts.</li>
<li><strong>Document Shepherd Role:</strong> Announcement of the opportunity to become a document shepherd for adopted working group documents.</li>
<li><strong>IPFIX Extensions:</strong> Presentation on IPFIX extension drafts, including TCP and UDP options, with a discussion of out-of-scope considerations like routing options.</li>
<li><strong>Policy-Based Network Control:</strong> Update on the YANG data model for policy-based network control and extensions, including a discussion of endpoint group IDs and integration with schedule YANG.</li>
<li><strong>Data Manifest:</strong> Presentation and discussion of the data manifest draft, focusing on metadata for telemetry data, and handling of absent values.</li>
<li><strong>Network Packet Loss Mitigation:</strong> Discussion of a draft focusing on minimizing network packet loss by automating remediation and identifying root causes. The draft proposes a classification scheme for packet discards.</li>
<li><strong>Incident Management:</strong> Presentation on the incident management draft, including use cases and model design, aiming to reduce duplicate troubleshooting tickets.</li>
<li><strong>Data Provenance:</strong> Update on the data provenance draft, focusing on ensuring the origin and integrity of YANG data sets using COSE signatures.</li>
<li><strong>Telemetry Data Storage:</strong> Discussion of mapping YANG-based telemetry data to time-series databases and challenges related to data scale and database selection.</li>
<li><strong>Side Meetings:</strong> Announcement of various ops-related side meetings during IETF 118.</li>
<li><strong>Nomcom Feedback:</strong> Reminder to provide feedback for the nomcom process for selecting ops area directors.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>IPFIX Extensions:</strong> The working group agreed to leave routing options and destination options out of scope for the IPFIX extension drafts.</li>
<li><strong>IPFIX Extensions:</strong> Working group last call was requested for all three IPFIX related documents.</li>
<li><strong>Incident Management:</strong> There was interest expressed in adopting the incident management draft.</li>
<li><strong>Side Meetings:</strong> Chiu Phang and Chen requested to share the side meeting information on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Send the side meeting information to the mailing list.</li>
<li>Discuss incident management adoption on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Authors of drafts to address feedback received during the meeting.</li>
<li>Continue work on the common schedule, YANG data model.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 08 Nov 2023 12:00</p>
<h1>opsawg</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The opsawg meeting covered several draft proposals related to sustainability insights, exposure of compute and communication information, digital map modeling, alternate marking information, and automation of OAM tests. Discussions focused on the scope and applicability of the drafts, their relationship to existing work within the IETF and other standards bodies, and potential next steps for development and standardization. A key point was determining the appropriate working group for the sustainability insights work, with a show of hands indicating interest within opsawg.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Sustainability Insights:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Motivation for focusing on power consumption as a key aspect of sustainability.</li>
<li>Challenges in obtaining consistent and accurate power consumption data from network equipment.</li>
<li>Relationship to existing work in IV (Inventory) and the need to coordinate efforts.</li>
<li>A poll was taken to assess interest in working on this topic within opsawg.</li>
<li>Concerns about expanding the scope to include full lifecycle carbon footprint analysis.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Exposure of Compute and Communication Information:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The need for a common set of compute metrics for service deployment and selection.</li>
<li>The potential overlap with work being done in the Katz working group.</li>
<li>Different needs for metrics at different layers and applications.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Modeling Digital Map:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Experiences with implementing a digital map based on RFC 8345.</li>
<li>Limitations identified when modeling ISIS and OSPF topologies.</li>
<li>Discussion of potential solutions, including augmentation and changes to existing RFCs.</li>
<li>Desire for a generic solution applicable to various use cases.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Alternate Marking Information:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Presentation of a draft defining IPFIX extensions for reporting alternate marking information.</li>
<li>Discussion of related work on young extensions.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Automation of OAM Tests:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Proposal for automating OAM tests to assess network health.</li>
<li>Definitions of OAM unitary tests and test sequences.</li>
<li>Use cases including troubleshooting, service validation, proactive supervision, and performance-based path routing.</li>
<li>Suggestion to consider a general scheduler model in YANG for these types of tasks.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Network Topology Modeling:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussed using the topology model as a base for network planning tools.</li>
<li>Highlighted the use of existing IDF Technologies, and topology models.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Sustainability Insights:</strong> Continue discussion on the mailing list and decide whether to adopt the draft in opsawg or move it to another working group.</li>
<li><strong>Exposure of Compute and Communication Information:</strong> Further discussion on the mailing list and a side meeting to gather feedback and determine the best venue for this work. The authors need to decide on the scope.</li>
<li><strong>Modeling Digital Map:</strong> Further discussions will be needed on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Alternate Marking Information:</strong> The authors will need to promote the work on the mailing list to get more engagement.</li>
<li><strong>All presenters:</strong> Promote discussion on the mailing lists.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>The authors of all presented drafts should actively engage with the opsawg mailing list to solicit feedback and advance their proposals.</li>
<li>Further evaluation of the existing work is required to determine their applicability and relation to the proposed ideas.</li>
<li>It was also suggested to reach out to the relevant routing area working groups.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
