**Session Date/Time:** 10 Nov 2023 12:00

# radext

## Summary
The radext working group meeting covered several topics including the status of the D TLS encryption draft, Radius version 1.1, COA deprecation, Status Realm, and Radius accounting assurance.  There was also a discussion regarding a liaison letter from the Wi-Fi Alliance. Decisions were made regarding the next steps for the DTLS draft, Radius 1.1, and the COA deprecation draft.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Wi-Fi Alliance Liaison:**
    *   Discussion of a liaison letter from the WBA regarding signaling AP location for Wi-Fi roaming.
    *   Concerns were raised about privacy and security implications.
    *   It was decided to continue the discussion on the mailing list and for the AD to coordinate with the IESG.
*   **DTLS Encryption Draft:**
    *   The working group adoption call finished, and the working group 0 version was published.
    *   Updates were made to the trust model, transport, and "status server keep alive" mechanism.
    *   Discussion on what needs to be completed to move to WG Last Call.
    *   Alan to create a GitHub repository to track 6613, 6614, 7360, and main doc issues.
    *   Suggestions to reference RFC 9325 and RFC 9525 regarding server identity in TLS.
*   **Radius Version 1.1:**
    *   Minor comments from Peter Deacon about clarifications, but no response as suggestion text.
    *   Discussion on whether to publish as experimental independently or wait for the 6614 biz document.
    *   The working group has consensus to NOT publish as experimental. Wait for 6614bis
*   **COA Deprecation Draft:**
    *   Discussion of issues raised about passwords and CHAP, which are not just about radius UDP but also about radius over TLS.
    *   Consensus to add more text saying what to do and what not to do.
    *   Consensus to keep the text on PAP vs CHAP, including an explanation of how it's misused/misunderstood.
    *   Consensus to remove the exception for the secure network.
    *   The WG will wait for 6614bis before publishing the deprecation draft.
*   **Reverse COA:**
    *   Discussion of reverse COA (reverse change of authorization), useful for sending COA packets down a TLS tunnel.
    *   Considered as experimental.
    *   The WG will check with the coauthor and update this with a new proposed name.

*   **Status Realm:**
    *   Review of draft updates, spelling corrections, phrasing differences, and naming consistencies.
    *   Status realm response code numbers updated.
    *   Server information now has an integer added to it, an integer field named Time Delta.
    *   Working Group adopted it as a working group document.
*   **Radius Accounting Assurance:**
    *   A presentation from the WBA on radius accounting assurance, dealing with misreporting in radius counting.
    *   Clarify and understand radius.
    *   Brought attention to gray areas in radius accounting.
    *   Addressed misreporting with vendor equipment.
* **Discussion on Traffic Congestion**
    *  Discussed several different ways that different Radius configuration and implementations can increase traffic congestion, especially during an EAP session.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Wi-Fi Alliance Liaison:** Continue mailing list discussion. AD to coordinate with IESG.
*   **DTLS Encryption Draft:** Alan to create a GitHub repository to track issues from existing RFCs.
*   **Radius Version 1.1:** The working group has consensus to NOT publish as experimental. Wait for 6614bis
*   **COA Deprecation Draft:** Add more text regarding guidance of legacy junk. Remove the exception for the secure network. The WG will wait for 6614bis before publishing the deprecation draft.
*   **Reverse COA:**  The WG will check with the coauthor on implementation experience, update this, and propose an experimental period. Update document name.
*   **Status Realm:** Accepted as a working group document.

## Next Steps

*   Alan to set up GitHub repository for DTLS draft issues.
*   Authors to address comments on the COA Deprecation draft and Reverse COA draft.
*   Continue discussion on the mailing list.
*   Continue development of active documents.
