**Session Date/Time:** 08 Nov 2023 08:30

# rats

## Summary
The RATS working group met to discuss several key drafts and their progress, including updates on Corim, UCCS, endorsements, message wrapper, epoch markers, attestation sets, and evidence. The discussions involved clarifying technical details, addressing open issues, and determining the next steps for each draft, including potential adoption and last call.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Corim Update (Yogesh):** Discussed editorial enhancements, alignment with the that endorsement draft, the concept of Cobom, extensions, and verifier algorithm details. There were questions about the need for Cobom and its relation to existing bill of material formats. Clarification was provided about its role in activating relevant commits and cosuites in complex supply chains.
*   **UCCS Update (Hank):**  Presented an update on UCCS, addressing concerns about its application to JSON Web Tokens. A compromise was reached to include a simple UCCS appendix with a simple example of how to do this with sales and web tokens.  There was discussion of a working group last call.
*   **Endorsements (Dave):**  Discussed updates to the endorsement draft, including clarifying terminology and adding text on endorser-target environment binding. A key open issue regarding attestation key material was identified, with a call for contributions. Agreement was reached that this open issue should not block the adoption of the draft.
*   **Message Wrapper (Thomas):**  Provided a status update on the conceptual message wrapper draft. All issues were closed, and the document was deemed ready. The draft aims to harmonize the delivery of evidence payloads across different protocols.
*   **Epoch Markers (Hank):** Discussed the latest updates to the epoch marker draft, including renaming "nonce" to "epoch tick". There were questions about whether it should be in the cozy working group or the rats working group.
*   **Attestation Sets (Kathleen):** Presented a draft on attestation sets, standardizing the exchange of claim set information for posture management. The draft aims to package up results of local attestations. There were questions about the distribution of roles in the architecture.
*   **Evidence (Hana):** Presented a draft to HSM to inform a CA that the key is stored in Hardware and properties regarding this. It is based on EAT claims, but ASN1 encoding and has HSM specifics.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Corim:** Improve the explanation of the need for Cobom and provide use case examples.
*   **UCCS:** Implement the agreed-upon changes and inform the list when done.  The chairs to decide if a 2-week working group last call is appropriate.
*   **Endorsements:** Adopt the draft as a working group document. Solicit text contributions for the attestation key material section.
*   **Message Wrapper:** Confirm adoption call on the mail list.
*   **Epoch Markers:**  The chairs will facilitate a discussion with the cozy group to determine the appropriate working group for this draft.
*   **Attestation Sets:** Kathleen will refine the draft, mapping to the taxonomy and clarifying any issues.
*   **Evidence:** provide feedback on the draft itself before the chair ask over Call for adoption.

## Next Steps

*   Confirm adoption call on the mail lists for selected drafts.
*   Continue working on open issues in drafts.
*   Coordinate with other working groups (e.g., cozy, lamps).
*   Solicit feedback from the mailing list for drafts.
