<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="satp.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-SATP-20231109-1200">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 09 Nov 2023 12:00</p>
<h1>satp</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The Session on Asset Transfer Protocol (SATP) covered updates on the architecture draft, crash recovery, and a Rust implementation of SATP. A demo on NF use cases and a report from the network identification design team were presented. Dennis discussed asset profile definitions. Discussions included charter scope, GitHub usage, use case inclusion, and the design of network identification.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Architecture Draft:</strong>  Thomas requested feedback on the architecture draft, aiming for working group last call. Wes emphasized that the document should align with the chartered scope, avoiding prescriptions for internal network APIs.</li>
<li><strong>GitHub Usage:</strong> It was clarified that comments and questions can be raised on GitHub, with the recommendation to announce the creation of issues on the mailing list for visibility.</li>
<li><strong>Crash Recovery Draft:</strong>  Thomas provided an update on the crash recovery draft, noting it's not a formal working group item but relevant to implementations.</li>
<li><strong>Rust Implementation of SATP:</strong> Rama presented on a Rust implementation of SATP within the Hyperledger Cacti project, enabling cross-chain asset transfers. Discussions focused on DLT version compatibility, the scope beyond DLTs, and verification mechanisms.</li>
<li><strong>NFT Use Cases:</strong> Victor demoed the use of NFTs for domain ownership and the need for protocols like SATP to coordinate complexities.</li>
<li><strong>Network Identification Design Team:</strong>  Thomas reported on the team's progress, addressing network forks and legal ownership declaration. Key considerations included TLV usage, default address format (32 bytes), and extended address format for additional network identification.</li>
<li><strong>Asset Profile Definition:</strong> Dennis discussed the context of SATP operation including defining asset profiles to ensure a precise description of assets being transferred. This is considered outside the current scope but may be added in the future.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Architecture Draft Review:</strong> The chairs will review the architecture draft within two weeks to assess its readiness for working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>NFT Use Case Inclusion:</strong> The working group will vote on including Victor's NFT use case in the official use case document.</li>
<li><strong>Mailing List Usage:</strong> Encourage the working group to reference important GitHub issues in the mailing list to ensure visibility.</li>
<li><strong>Interim Meeting Scheduling:</strong> A Doodle poll will be sent out to find the most suitable time for all participants for the recurring monthly interim meeting.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Chairs to provide comments to the architecture draft authors within two weeks.</li>
<li>Gather working group consensus on including the NFT use case in the document.</li>
<li>Distribute a Doodle poll to determine optimal time/day for interim meetings.</li>
<li>Send proposed text for use cases to mailing list.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
