**Session Date/Time:** 08 Nov 2023 12:00

# teep

## Summary
This meeting covered the latest updates to the TEEP protocol draft, focusing on resolving open issues and incorporating feedback from the hackathon. Key discussion points included the negotiation of suit cozy profiles, updates to normative references, and the ongoing formal verification efforts. A decision was made to initiate a two-week working group last call, potentially extended to three weeks to account for Thanksgiving.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **Hackathon Report:** Akita presented the results of the joint hackathon, highlighting the focus on supporting more cozy signature algorithms and matching cipher suite profiles between TEEP and SUIT MTI.
*   **SUIT MTI Updates:** Discussion on aligning with the latest SUIT MTI draft, including updates to supported algorithms and a change from normative to informative reference for SUIT encryption.
*   **Formal Verification:** Mohammed raised concerns about the completeness of the formal verification efforts, specifically regarding reachability at different levels in ProVerif.
*   **TEEP Protocol Draft Updates:** Dave presented updates since draft 17, including editorial changes based on Hannes' review, clarification of encryption details, and alignment with the latest EAT profile naming conventions.
*   **SUIT Cozy Profile Negotiation:** A detailed discussion on negotiating SUIT cozy profiles, particularly in the context of manifest and SUIT reports. An "unsupported SUIT cozy profile" error code was added.
*   **SUIT Capability Report Integration:** A key point of discussion was whether to include a SUIT capability report in the SUIT report for error cases. Brendan proposed an optional field for the SUIT capability report, leading to a vote.

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **Initiate Working Group Last Call:** A two-week working group last call will be initiated, possibly extended to three weeks to account for Thanksgiving.
*   **SUIT Report Update:** Brendan will propose a change to the SUIT report to include an optional field for the SUIT capability report and post it to the SUIT mailing list for confirmation.
*   **Continue Formal Analysis:** Formal analysis of the protocol will continue, with a focus on improving the verification code.

## Next Steps
*   Dave will initiate the working group last call.
*   Brendan will update the SUIT report draft and propose the changes to the SUIT working group.
*   The working group will monitor the mailing list for further discussion and feedback.
