<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="tsvarea.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF118-TSVAREA-20231108-1200">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 08 Nov 2023 12:00</p>
<h1>tsvarea</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This was the final meeting of the TSV Area, as it is being subsumed into the new Web and Internet Transport (WIT) area. The meeting included updates on current working groups, a presentation on the new WIT area and its constituent working groups, and an open mic session for community discussion. Key topics included the transition of responsibilities, the future of transport-related work, and the handling of existing work from closed working groups.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Alto Working Group Closure:</strong> The Alto working group is being closed, with the final two deliverables in ISG review.</li>
<li><strong>IPPM Transition:</strong> IPPM is moving to the OPS area before IETF 119.</li>
<li><strong>MASK Recharter:</strong> MASK is undergoing a small recharter to include work on a connected ethernet draft. Chris Wood is stepping down as chair, and Dennis Jackson will be joining Eric as a co-chair.</li>
<li><strong>TSPM and TSVWG Recharters:</strong> TSPM's charter is being revised to reflect the existence of CCWG. TSVWG is being renamed Transport and Services Working Group, but its technical scope remains unchanged.</li>
<li><strong>WIT Area Introduction:</strong> Francesca Palombini provided an overview of the new WIT area, including the working groups that will be part of it from both the ART and TSV areas. The transition will occur by IETF 119, with a likely transition period.</li>
<li><strong>Handling of Old Work:</strong> Discussion on what happens to work from closed working groups that still needs maintenance. The general consensus is that these groups are done with their chartered items, if there needs to be maintenance, they would reopen and recharter.</li>
<li><strong>Synergy in the WIT Area:</strong> Brian Tremmel raised the question of synergy within the WIT area and the potential for cross-review between relevant ART and TSV working groups.</li>
<li><strong>Real-Time Media Transport:</strong> Magnus Westerlund expressed disappointment in the absence of real-time media transport in the WIT acronym, highlighting the significant work being done in this area.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li>Alto will be closed once the last two documents clear ISG review and the RFC editor queue.</li>
<li>MASK will undergo a small recharter to include work on connected ethernet.</li>
<li>TSPM and TSVWG will undergo recharters with the modifications discussed.</li>
<li>ADs will discuss area mailing list transition.</li>
<li>Community feedback on merging areas is welcome.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>The ISG will continue working on dispatcher reform.</li>
<li>The WIT area will work to establish synergy and cross-review between the relevant ART and TSV working groups.</li>
<li>Francesca and Zayed to continue to address the re-org of working groups.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
