**Session Date/Time:** 06 Nov 2024 15:00

# 6lo

## Summary

The 6lo working group meeting covered updates on several drafts, including IPv6 prefix registration, path-aware semantic addressing (PASA), and transmission of compressed packets over IEEE 802.15.4 networks and short range optical wireless communication. Discussions focused on the scope and potential overlaps of these drafts with existing protocols and technologies, such as DHCPv6 and IPv6 Neighbor Discovery. The group also discussed updating working group milestones and the charter.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **IPv6 Prefix Registration Draft:** Bob Hinden expressed concern that the prefix registration draft represents a large step for neighbor discovery and may require broader review. There was extensive discussion on the purpose of the draft and its relationship to DHCPv6. Pascal clarified that it's about a host informing the router that it *has* a prefix, independently of how the prefix was obtained. The discussion then shifted to similarities with the Snack protocol and whether this new draft duplicates existing functionality.
*   **PASA and Reliability:** Updates to the PASA draft addressed reliability concerns raised by Joel. Multiple topologies and redundancy solutions were discussed.
*   **Generic Address Assignment Option for 6LoWPAN ND (GAO):** The GAO option format was discussed, and the meeting explored which flags are necessary. Luigi asked for feedback on whether a four-bit or eight-bit address allocation function (AIF) is sufficient.
*   **Transmission of SHIC Compressed Packets over 802.15.4:** This draft introduces a "Shiklow Network" definition. Updates were made to clarify behavior in multiple instance networks and security considerations.
*   **IPv6 over Optical Wireless Communication:** Yong'an Choice presented an update, including a correction to the IANA registry reference.
*   **Milestones:** New milestones for various working group documents were proposed, based on author input.
*   **Charter Revision:** Minor revisions to the working group charter were proposed, including updating references to relevant RFCs and working groups (e.g., closing Elwick). Adding coordination with the chic working group.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Action Item (Pascal):** Investigate the Snack protocol and how it addresses prefix registration to determine potential overlap with the IPv6 Prefix Registration Draft. The goal is to identify specific use cases where the draft offers unique benefits over Snack.
*   **Action Item (Luigi):** Verify that the M-bit in the GAO draft is actually intended for experimental use, to ensure it doesn't collide with any already-assigned uses of the bit.
*   **Decision:** Initiate Working Group Last Call for the IPv6 Prefix Registration Draft and the PASA draft.
*    **Action Item (Chairs):** Provide slides of the proposed Charter revision to the mailing list and solicit feedback.
*   **Action Item (Authors, All):**  Add a paragraph to the introductions of PASA and GAO drafts clarifying what the protocol does in terms of prior art such as Snack

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussion on the IPv6 Prefix Registration Draft and its relationship to Snack, likely in a side meeting.
*   Monitor the chic architecture draft for stabilization and alignment with the "Transmission of SHIC Compressed Packets" draft.
*   Discuss proposed updates to the working group charter on the mailing list.
*   Next meeting: IETF in Bangkok, March 2025.
