<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="6man.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-6MAN-20241107-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 07 Nov 2024 09:30</p>
<h1>6man</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The 6man working group meeting covered a range of topics, including updates on existing RFCs and drafts, and presentations of new work. Key discussions centered on security considerations for various proposals, particularly regarding extension headers and potential vulnerabilities. Decisions included requests for working group last calls on several drafts, and action items were assigned to authors to incorporate feedback and further refine their proposals.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>6724 Update:</strong> Ted Lemon raised concerns about the impact of the stub router bit on source address selection, suggesting potential damage if preferred. Action: Ted Lemon to investigate and provide feedback to the list.</li>
<li><strong>IPV6 Server Definition Option:</strong> Ron presented an experimental RFC for a new destination option for VPN services. Discussion focused on validating the new extension header, security considerations related to potential injection, and the scope of deployment within limited domains.</li>
<li><strong>Deprecation of Router Alert Option:</strong> Ron presented a draft to deprecate the router alert option. Discussion covered potential impact on existing protocols like RSVPTE and MLD, with concerns raised regarding the continued permissibility of router alert usage and security implications.</li>
<li><strong>Carrying Natural Resource Information in IPV6 Extension Headers:</strong> Jadeung presented updates on a draft for carrying network resource information. Discussion revolved around terminology alignment with the TIS working group, specifically the use of &quot;network resource partition selector&quot; versus &quot;network resource partition ID,&quot; and the impact on MPLS data plane interoperability.</li>
<li><strong>Improving Robustness of Slack to Flash Renumbering Events:</strong> Richard presented a draft to improve Slack's robustness. Concerns were raised regarding the removal of the two-hour minimum valid lifetime, potential security risks, and the need for clearer wording on configuration change notifications.</li>
<li><strong>Link-Local Address Changes During Renumbering:</strong> Lorenzo presented a draft to address link-local address changes. Discussion focused on implementation challenges, the impact of multiple RAs, and source address selection behavior.</li>
<li><strong>IPV6 Node Requirements:</strong> Tim presented an update on the IPV6 node requirements document. Discussion covered type C host requirements, support for DHCPv6, and the challenges of multi-homing support.</li>
<li><strong>The IDEA Reflection Utility:</strong> Ron presented a draft for a diagnostic tool. Concerns were raised about the security implications of publicly accessible NATS.</li>
<li><strong>IP Parcels and Advanced Jumbos:</strong> Fred presented a draft for IP parcels with extended length field. The proposal was met with skepticism due to concerns on GRO, as well as issues with POSMTU on the internet.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>6724 Update:</strong> Advance after review of Ted Lemon's comments.</li>
<li><strong>IPV6 Server Definition Option:</strong> Request for working group last call. Ron to address security concerns and incorporate feedback.</li>
<li><strong>Deprecation of Router Alert Option:</strong> Request for working group last call. Ron to clarify the abstract and appendix, addressing concerns about existing implementations and permissible usage.</li>
<li><strong>Carrying Natural Resource Information in IPV6 Extension Headers:</strong> Chairs to discuss with TIS chairs and consider a joint working group last call after checking with TIS.</li>
<li><strong>Improving Robustness of Slack to Flash Renumbering Events:</strong> Richard to add text explaining the rationale for removing the two-hour minimum valid lifetime and the evaluation of associated risks, address the comments about undefined and shoulds, and improve wording on configuration change notifications.</li>
<li><strong>Link-Local Address Changes During Renumbering:</strong> Authors to merge this draft with the Slack Renum draft.</li>
<li><strong>IPV6 Node Requirements:</strong> Chair will issue an adoption call. Authors to address DHCPv6 requirements, multi-homing and rule 55, and the 5175 flags option.</li>
<li><strong>The IDEA Reflection Utility:</strong> Determine the best approach based on further discussion and feedback from the list.</li>
<li><strong>IP Parcels and Advanced Jumbos:</strong> Acknowledge the presenter and suggest he participate in the related boff sessions.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to incorporate feedback and revise drafts as needed.</li>
<li>Chairs to initiate working group last calls for selected drafts.</li>
<li>Chairs to coordinate with other working groups (TIS) on related topics.</li>
<li>Continue discussion on the mailing list for unresolved issues.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
