<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="bess.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-BESS-20241108-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 08 Nov 2024 09:30</p>
<h1>bess</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The BESS working group session in Dublin covered updates on existing working group documents, discussion on new drafts, and requests for working group adoption. A poll was conducted regarding RFC 7430 to gauge readiness for working group last call. Various presentations were given on topics including EVPN VPWS seamless interworking, weighted HRW, IPSEC cut-through mode, E-Tree updates, EVPN group policy, anycast multi-homing, fast re-route, and Savi-EVPN integration.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Working Group Document Progress:</strong> Chairs emphasized the need to focus on closing existing working group documents and encouraged updates.</li>
<li><strong>RFC 7430:</strong> A poll was conducted to assess the readiness of the latest version for working group last call.  A majority had read it and thought it was ready.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN IPSEC Cut-Through Mode:</strong> Concerns were raised regarding the management of the data plane part, with a suggestion to discuss offline and potentially involve the NVO3 working group.  The need for a new UDP port was identified, raising questions about which working group should manage this aspect.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN Group Policy:</strong> Discussion centered on resolving issues related to RFC 7348 and a recommendation to republish it with an IANA section, treating it as informational. The routing working group offered to support this. The need to consider interaction between standards track and informational drafts when creating normative references was raised.</li>
<li><strong>Anycast Multi-homing:</strong> Janos Farkas mentioned 802.1AX as a standard for multi-chassis link aggregation and suggested potentially referencing it. Discussions clarified that existing deployments were largely proprietary.</li>
<li><strong>SRV6-based BGP Service Capability Advertisement:</strong> Doubts were expressed about the practicality of a new capability code at this stage due to existing deployments, with suggestions it might be too late. Concerns were raised that a capability code could make brownfield deployments problematic.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN Extension for Even6:</strong> Concerns were expressed whether this solution solved any real problem and why it encapsulated MAC in IPv6 when EVPN covers L2 and L3 VPNs and SRv6 already exists.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>RFC 7430:</strong> Proceed with working group last call following IETF.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN IPSEC Cut-Through Mode:</strong> Discuss data plane aspects offline, potentially involving NVO3.</li>
<li><strong>EVPN Group Policy:</strong> Republish RFC 7348 with an IANA section and treat it as informational following recommendation by the IETF Trust.</li>
<li><strong>SRV6 E-Tree Draft:</strong> Ali to follow up with Patrice regarding comments to improve the description of the tunnel encapsulation.</li>
<li><strong>Ali (E-Tree):</strong> Follow up by email to chairs, requesting adoption and/or last call.</li>
<li><strong>Wiki Page:</strong> Chairs requested for everyone to make sure they add anything they request to be tracked on the Wiki Page.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Working group last call for SR argument post IETF.</li>
<li>Authors of related SRV6 and Fast Reroute drafts to cooperate/merge efforts.</li>
<li>Further discussion and refinement of various draft documents based on feedback received.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
