<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="core.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-CORE-20241105-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 05 Nov 2024 09:30</p>
<h1>core</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The CoRE working group session at IETF-121 covered a wide range of topics, including document status updates, the Corconv cluster, HRF, conditional attributes, DNS over CoAP, transport indication, group communication, OSCore key updates, and individual submissions. The session focused on technical discussions, resolving open issues, and planning future work. Several working group last calls were proposed.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Corconv Cluster and Yang Augmentation:</strong> Presentation on augmenting YAM modules in the IETF Yang Library, with concerns raised regarding the impact on constrained IoT devices and the efficiency of retrieving multiple Yang modules.</li>
<li><strong>HRF and Zone Identifiers:</strong> Discussion on handling zone identifiers in Concise Resource Identifiers (CRIs) in light of browser vendor decisions and RFC deprecations. Proposal to retain zone identifiers in the information model without explicitly relating them to URIs.</li>
<li><strong>Conditional Attributes:</strong> Updates on the conditional attributes draft, addressing IoT Directorate reviews and IANA considerations.</li>
<li><strong>Transport Indication:</strong> Discussion on discovering CoAP transports and the use of service binding records, with a proposal to move certain aspects related to IP literals and secure devices outside PKI to a separate effort. An interim meeting was proposed to further hash out these questions in December.</li>
<li><strong>CoAP PubSub Broker:</strong> Updates on the PubSub draft, addressing reliability and requesting automatic topic data path prepopulation. A working group last call was proposed.</li>
<li><strong>Group Communication:</strong> Progress and updates to the Group ComBIS document with some changes and Christian's review and potential need for a second last call.</li>
<li><strong>Proxy for Group Communication:</strong> New Coop options. Renaming the options for adoption. More clarification on the client side for the handling of multiple responses.</li>
<li><strong>OSCore Key Update (Kudos):</strong> Updates on the OSCore key update draft, addressing feedback on message overhead, forward secrecy modes, and key confirmation. Implementations were tested with success.</li>
<li><strong>CoAP over Bundle Protocol:</strong> New Terms related to optional support of co-message aggregation with new payload length option.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>CorClare:</strong> Send reviews to the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Conditional Attributes:</strong> Address remaining editorial issues and shepherd document.</li>
<li><strong>Transport Indication:</strong> Schedule an interim meeting in December to further discuss discovery of CoAP transports and related issues.</li>
<li><strong>CoAP PubSub:</strong> Proposed working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Group Communication:</strong> Proceed with the working group last call in parallel to sending Christian's confirmation that's the working class call.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Interim Meetings:</strong> Confirm the December 18th interim meeting and plan subsequent meetings in January and February.</li>
<li><strong>Document Progression:</strong>  Shepherd remaining documents that are ready for progression, including conditional attributes and the coap pubsub broker.</li>
<li><strong>Individual Submissions:</strong> Encourage review and progression of individual submissions.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
