**Session Date/Time:** 06 Nov 2024 09:30

# dtn

## Summary

This DTN working group meeting covered a variety of topics, including the status of several RFCs and drafts, discussions about DTN architecture, management, reliability, and multi-destination communication. There were presentations on the DTN Management Architecture (DTMA), BPSEC Cozay context, EID patterns, UDP convergence layer updates, secure advertising and neighbor discovery (SAND), edge node zero configuration, Interpure, and an exploration of end-to-end reliability in DTN networks. A key discussion revolved around updating RFC 4838, the DTN architecture document, to reflect current standards and developments.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **RFC 4838 Update:**
    *   Ed presented the idea of refreshing RFC 4838, an architecture document from the IRTF, to align with current IETF standards (BPV7, BPSEC) and remove the disclaimer about it not being endorsed by the IETF.
    *   The discussion centered on the benefits of having an IETF-endorsed architecture document for DTN.
    *   Concerns about the scope of the update and potential conflicts with CCSDS work were raised.
    *   The AD, Eric Klein, expressed that this can be useful to clarify behavior requirements.
*   **DTMA Status:**
    *   Jenny provided an update on the DTMA documents, including the DTMA draft's publication as RFC 9675 and the AMP document's adoption.
    *   Implementation experience and open-source repositories were highlighted.
    *   CCSDS collaboration and adaptation of DTMA into an orange book were discussed.
*   **DTN Yang Syntax/Model:**
    *   Lou spoke about the DTN Yang syntax, the importance of not creating a fork in Yang and to have an update on the document to that effect.
    *   The difference between modules and models and the importance of creating a YANG module rather than a new YANG syntax
*   **BPSEC Cozay Context:**
    *   Brian reported on the BPSEC Cozay context draft, noting its stability and progress through IANA early review.
    *   A request for early allocation of a context ID was reiterated.
    *   A call for an IANA review and potential movement out of working group for publication
*   **EID Patterns, UDPCL, SAND, and Edge Node Zero Configuration:**
    *   Brian provided brief statuses on these drafts, including the removal of DTN-specific definitions from EID patterns and extensibility features in UDPCL.
    *   There was a discussion on whether extensions to UDPCL were useful in production environments.
    *   Dependencies between SAND and UDPCL/EID patterns were clarified.
    *   Potential hackathon for zero configuration behavior with DNS use with routers, as a base.
*   **BPV7 Blue Book Status:**
    *   Brian provided a brief update, noting the planned allocation of a new LTP client service ID specific to BPV7.
*   **Interplanetary Multi-destination Communication (IMC):**
    *   Joshua presented on CCSDS's orange book for IMC, outlining the scheme and forwarding rules.
    *   The need for duplicate suppression and the decision to use a privatized range were discussed.
    *   The possibility of registering IMC or rolling it under IPN for group numbers was brought up.
*   **Reliability in DTN:**
    *   Rick presented an exploration of end-to-end reliability.
    *   Custody transfer was discussed and argued to be a useful part of the total picture but not the final solution
    *   Alberto raised issues on algorithms of CST
*   **Interpure Architecture**
    *   Jen provided context to the Interpure Architecture, how to deal with high or low latency.
    *   The interest of terrestrial networks, use a good subscription mechanism

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **RFC 4838 Update:** The working group will proceed with updating RFC 4838, and Ed will coordinate with the original authors.
*   **BPSEC Cozay Context:** Chairs will reach out to the Cozay chairs and AD to get a review done.
*   **Lou's Request for DTN Yang syntax:** Lou to reach out to NetMod chair to review the areas that it sees as contentious.
*   **EID Patterns, UDPCL, SAND, and Edge Node Zero Configuration:** The working group will continue to develop and refine these drafts. Authors will rename personal drafts to be working group documents.
*   **UDPCL Menu Items:** Brian will post the list of menu items to the mailing list for feedback.
*   **Sand's BP sand Discussion:** the chairs asked for the list to see BP sand on the mailing list
*   **Felix's Comment** Felix's comment will be followed-up on the mailing list

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussions on the mailing list for all topics.
*   Authors to act on the requests made during each discussion.
*   Chairs will organize future hackathons.
