**Session Date/Time:** 07 Nov 2024 17:30

# emailcore

## Summary

This emailcore session focused on reviewing open tickets related to the SMTP base document. Discussions included clarifying language, addressing security considerations, and improving overall document clarity. Key topics involved CNAME handling, normative references to security, and the use of the TURN extension. Decisions were made on several tickets, and action items were assigned to improve the document.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Destination Mailbox Case:** Discussion on whether the destination mailbox needs to be in uppercase. John Klensin will propose alternative text for clarification if necessary.
*   **I-D Status:** The Area Director will ensure the document is updated appropriately after IESG review.
*   **CNAME Chains:** Discussion on the use of CNAME chains and proposed textual changes to accommodate the reality of their usage.
*   **RR Records:** Confirmation that the proposed change to text listing RR records is factually correct.
*   **Security Considerations:** Extensive discussion on where and how to address security considerations, specifically TLS and related extensions. Consensus leaned towards informative references to the AS document and potentially adding text to the introduction.
*   **TURN Extension:** Discussion on the use of the TURN extension and whether the "should not" usage is appropriate. The decision was made to leave it as is, with the AD ready to defend the decision during IESG review.
*   **Authentication Section Title:** A proposal was made to modify the authentication section title.
*   **Hello/EHLO Ambiguity:** Discussion around the ambiguity of Hello/EHLO commands. Art and Pete volunteered to analyze the document text and identify areas for clarification.
*   **Response Codes:** Question whether the group headings are correct and volunteer to check from group.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Destination Mailbox Case:** No change for now, but John Klensin might propose alternative text.
*   **I-D Status:** Area Director Murray to deal with removing the text about not listing as internet standards up to the system done.
*   **CNAME Chains:** Ted Lemon's proposed text change regarding CNAME chains will be included.
*   **RR Records:** Agreed to implement the proposed change.
*   **Security Considerations:**
    *   Informative references to the AS document will be added to the SMTP base document.
    *   The introduction will be updated to mention security considerations are discussed in detail in the AS document.
    *   Participants are encouraged to post suggested text and placement for these additions.
*   **TURN Extension:** Leave as is, but be prepared to change "should not" to "must not" if required by the IESG.
*   **Authentication Section Title:** John to suggest text tweak for the section title.
*   **Hello/EHLO Ambiguity:** Art and Pete will analyze the document and identify areas for clarification.
*   **Response Codes:** John to check the group headings are correct and volunteers to make suggestions.

## Next Steps

*   John Klensin to potentially provide alternative text for the destination mailbox ticket.
*   Area Director to handle the I-D status ticket.
*   Participants to propose specific text for security considerations.
*   Art and Pete to analyze the Hello/EHLO ambiguity.
*   Further discussion and ticket resolution will occur during the next emailcore session on Friday.
*   Early review for the Applicability Statement (AS) document will be requested.
*   John to check the grouping of the response codes are correct.


---

**Session Date/Time:** 08 Nov 2024 13:00

# emailcore

## Summary
The emailcore working group met to discuss open issues and potential changes to the 5321bis and Applicability Statement (AS) documents. Topics included clarification of "must not" statements, treatment of error codes, security considerations, internationalization, and the handling of multi-part messages. The group made decisions on several issues, assigned action items, and planned for an interim meeting in December.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Clarification of "must not" statements:** The group discussed tightening a "should not" to "must not" for older clients sending extra information in HELO/EHLO. Concerns about making old clients non-conformant were raised and addressed.
*   **Review of "frivolous" term:** Discussion centered on replacing the term "frivolous" in a section about reasons for rejecting messages. The group sought more concrete language.
*   **Mail Gateway text:** The group debated moving the text from Appendix D regarding mail gateways into Section 3.7.6 to consolidate all gateway-related information in one place.
*   **IANA registry for response codes:** The group decided against creating an IANA registry for response codes, preferring the use of extended status codes.
*   **MT Priority Extension Text:** It was decided to remove the suggestion for improvements in the IANA registry from the MT Priority Extension as it may not age well, and the MT Priority Extension author was tasked with making the modifications.
*   **Inconsistent terminology in mail buffers:** The group decided to leave inconsistent terminology as-is due to the complexity and potential for confusion.
*   **Security Considerations:** Discussion regarding the Applicability Statement (AS) security section and extensions. Agreed to focus on listing the security protocols.
*   **Handling of SMTP error codes:** Discussed proper handling of different SMTP error codes, especially 421 errors. Decided to address this topic in the AS rather than 5321bis.
*   **IDNA Conversion:** A bullet point regarding IDNA conversion was found to be backwards and will be corrected.
*   **Multi-part messages:** Discouraging the use of multiple alternatives other than different languages.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Change HELO/EHLO wording:** The "should not" statement regarding extra information in HELO/EHLO will be changed to "must not".
*   **Braun and Todd to provide revised text:** Braun and Todd will collaborate on new text to replace the section containing the word "frivolous," to be discussed on the mailing list.
*   **Move Mail Gateway text:** Appendix D regarding mail gateways will be moved to Section 3.7.6. John to do it but to make sure it doesn't create problems.
*   **Add sentence about enhanced status codes:** A sentence recommending the use of enhanced status codes will be added to the document.
*   **Murray to handle management item:** Murray will handle the management item of renaming one sub-registry related to MT Priority in IANA.
*   **Alexi to write text for AS:** Alexi is tasked with writing text for the Applicability Statement (AS) regarding the handling of SMTP error codes.
*   **Jim to add comments to GitHub issue:** Jim will add a comment to the relevant GitHub issue, questioning if client-authenticated TLS can be used in SMTP.
*   **John to do an update on the base pack:** John will update the base pack and get it as close as possible to being ready for the IESG, keeping the notes in for the time being.
*   **Alexi to review the empty local part:** Alexi will review the empty local part.
*   **Alexi will re-review 5321 bis.**

## Next Steps

*   Braun and Todd to provide revised text on "frivolous" by end of session.
*   John to update 5321bis draft with changes discussed, and remove Mail Gateway text.
*   Alexi to write text for AS regarding handling of error codes.
*   Jim to comment on GitHub issue regarding client-authenticated TLS.
*   Chairs and editors to review SMTP readiness for IESG and the status of the AS.
*   Schedule an interim meeting for the first or second week of December.
*   Open a ticket for terrorist ticket for AS.
*   Remove the suggestion for improvements in the IANA registry from the MT Priority Extension.
*   Address the issues and get them out of the way, for easier reading.
*   Alexi to point out to 5321 to look at AS stuff.
