<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="idr.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-IDR-20241104-1300">Recording 1</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-IDR-20241108-1530">Recording 2</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 04 Nov 2024 13:00</p>
<h1>IDR Meeting - IETF 121 Dublin</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The IDR meeting at IETF 121 covered a variety of topics related to BGP extensions and routing security. Presentations included updates on existing drafts, new proposals for flow specification and SRv6, and discussions on routing security and origin validation. Key themes included addressing inter-domain routing challenges, improving network security, and leveraging BGP for traffic engineering. Several documents were nearing working group last call, and discussions were held regarding the appropriate venue for specific areas of work.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>BGPLS SR Policy (Ketan):</strong> Clarifications and updates based on implementations and feedback from the working group and Shepherd Review. Ready for working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>BGPLS for Multi-Topology Segment Routing (Chongfong):</strong> Applicability of BGPLS with MT for Segment Routing in base network resource partitions. No new BGP extensions were introduced. Updated terminology and descriptions.  Document is likely going to Working Group Last Call.</li>
<li><strong>VPN Prefix ORF (Wei Wang):</strong> Updates including modified descriptions and format of SPEC. Source PE identifier was newly defined.  Working group review is desired.</li>
<li><strong>Flow Spec for SRv6 (Robin):</strong> Introduction of new BGP flow specification for SRv6 filtering. This is a split out from the more IP filters draft and is going back to its original function to help implement choices.</li>
<li><strong>Flow Spec Indirection ID for SRv6 (Robin):</strong> Proposal for a new subtype value for SRv6 in the FlowSpec redirect to indirection ID extended community. Soliciting comments and refinement of the draft.</li>
<li><strong>Packet Content Filter for BGP Flow Spec (Yu-Jean):</strong> Proposal for a new type of flow spec filter to defend against DDoS attacks.  Seeking comments on new offset types. Component ordering is an important aspect of this draft.</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 Policy List Optimizations (Safa G):</strong> Optimization by removing endpoint node SID. Discussion on whether the exclusion flag attribute should be policy or candidate path level attribute. The intent is to work with a co-author from another draft to merge documents.</li>
<li><strong>FCBGP Protocol (Zhuo Tau):</strong> Secure routing protocol for partial deployment. Update on the protocol. Major change is regarding a comparison with BGPSEC.</li>
<li><strong>BGPLS Flexible Algorithm (Arvin):</strong> BGPL support for Flexalgo extensions in IGP. Proposes new extensions defined in Flexalgo enhancements in IGP area.</li>
<li><strong>BGP for RPKI as Yang Model (Jishnu):</strong> Yang models for origin validation, BGPSEC path, and BGP ASPA. Focus on tracking validation states and providing statistical data.</li>
<li><strong>Route Origin Registry Issues (Senglin):</strong> Discussion of challenges in route origin registries and the need for improved data quality and coverage. It was discussed that this topic might be better suited for GROW or CIDER-OPS.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>BGPLS SR Policy:</strong> Proceed to working group last call after closing the review with Sue.</li>
<li><strong>BGPLS for Multi-Topology Segment Routing:</strong> Proceed to working group last call shortly, if no further comments arise.</li>
<li><strong>VPN Prefix ORF:</strong> Request working group review and address the concerns on the due formats (Kair and Sue).</li>
<li><strong>Flow Spec for SRv6:</strong> Coordinate with the BGP Flow Spec version 2 working group.</li>
<li><strong>Flow Spec Indirection ID for SRv6:</strong> Refine draft based on comments.</li>
<li><strong>FCBGP Protocol:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Request an ASPath code point from IANA.</li>
<li>Consider John's comments, especially regarding performance and packing.</li>
<li>Review the archives to reference to the design considerations document that wen lin BGPSC had.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>BGPLS Flexible Algorithm:</strong> Send in the adoption request.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to address comments and feedback received during the meeting and on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Working group chairs to schedule confirming/adoption calls for relevant drafts.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list for unresolved issues and open questions.</li>
<li>Evaluate potential rechartering of the IDR working group to reflect current activities.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 08 Nov 2024 15:30</p>
<h1>idr</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The IDR session at IETF 121 covered a variety of topics, including updates on the 5G metadata draft, tunnel eager draft, flow spec V2, BGP security, and other routing protocol extensions. Discussions focused on implementation status, interoperability, specification clarity, and potential impacts on BGP scalability. Several requests for working group adoption were made.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>5G Metadata Draft:</strong> Discussion revolved around the scope of the &quot;limited domain&quot; concept, integration of metadata metrics into the BGP decision process, and implementation status. It was suggested to simplify BGP signaling by using a composite value calculated at the egress.</li>
<li><strong>Tunnel Eager Draft:</strong>  The presentation covered extending BGP to carry additional information to support full schedule for AI networks. Interoperability concerns were raised, specifically the need for at least two interworking implementations to progress the draft. Concerns were raised regarding a lack of certain chipset capabilities.</li>
<li><strong>SR Policy Admin Flag:</strong> Presentation of updates to the SR Policy Admin Flag draft, including flags for disabling, ignoring service looters prefix, and marking drop-upon-invalid behavior.</li>
<li><strong>Flow Spec V2:</strong> A comprehensive overview of the goals and design principles behind FlowSpec V2 was provided, focusing on user ordering, action chaining, and handling of failed actions. There was a call for early feedback from implementers and discussion around whether to create registries for managing drafts.</li>
<li><strong>BGP Scheduling:</strong> A flow spec extension for traffic scheduling, specifically for handling peak traffic times.</li>
<li><strong>BGP Performance Metrics:</strong> A new PTPLS extension to carry the IGPT metric and bandwidth, link delay, and link loss information in the EPPETPM.</li>
<li><strong>Inter-Domain Forwarding Consistency:</strong> A discussion about inconsistencies between the BGP AS path and the actual forwarding path, raising concerns about traffic holes, loops, and potential security risks.  Concerns were raised that a thorough fix would make BGP unscalable.</li>
<li><strong>BGP Route Capability:</strong> Presentation of a new BGP capability for indicating supported route types, to prevent issues with implementations that cannot parse specific updates.</li>
<li><strong>IPv4 Islands over IPv6 Core:</strong> Updates to a draft aimed at connecting IPv4 islands over an IPv6 core, similar to 6PE. A call for workgroup adoption was issued.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>5G Metadata Draft:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Add a section about implementation status and call for implementation reports.</li>
<li>Consider signaling a composite value of metadata instead of raw TLVs.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Flow Spec V2:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Solicit early feedback from implementers.</li>
<li>Consider early allocation for SAFIs, capability codes, and action ordering.</li>
<li>The IDR chairs will start an adoption call for &quot;more IP filters.&quot;</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>IPv4 Islands over IPv6 Core:</strong> The IDR chairs will set up a GitHub repository and encourage English language edits.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>5G Metadata Draft:</strong> Update the draft based on the feedback received.</li>
<li><strong>Flow Spec V2:</strong> Continue discussions and solicit feedback on the mailing list. Initiate adoption call for the &quot;more IP filters&quot; document.</li>
<li><strong>Tunnel Eager Draft:</strong> Discuss possible interworking implementation possibilities on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Inter-Domain Forwarding Consistency:</strong> Discuss the draft further on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>IPv4 Islands over IPv6 Core:</strong>  Continue development with a focus on editing for improved English. Proceed with adoption on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
