<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="intarea.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-INTAREA-20241106-1300">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 06 Nov 2024 13:00</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># intarea Meeting Minutes

## Summary

The intarea working group meeting covered several important topics, including updates on proxy configurations, ICMP extensions, reverse traceroute, W-pad specifications, multicast port assignments, and MACSec encryption. The discussion focused on clarifying existing drafts, addressing open issues, and determining the direction for future work.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Proxy Configurations (PVD):**
    *   Discussion on communicating proxy details in JSON format for provisioning domains.
    *   Parity with PAC files was analyzed, highlighting differences and potential omissions in PVD configurations.
    *   Debated including proxy authentication hints in the PVD configuration. Consensus leaned towards excluding it for now, possibly addressing it in a separate draft.
    *   Addressed concerns about very long lists of match and exclude domains in PVD JSON and how clients should handle them.
*   **ICMP Extensions:**
    *   Discussion on clarifying existing ICMP probing extensions due to implementation inconsistencies.
    *   Considered adoption of a draft fixing unclear text in ICMP extensions, specifically around checksum calculation and data inclusion.
    *   Presentation on extending node ID using ICMP extensions, including adding IP address and name sub-objects.
    *   Discussion on adding configurable security considerations to the draft, especially regarding CELAT translators.
*   **Reverse Traceroute:**
    *   Discussion on using ICMP for reverse traceroute signaling.
    *   Two main options: ICMP Echo vs. Extended Echo.
    *   Concerns raised about compatibility with legacy middleboxes and the impact of using new ICMP types.
    *   Discussion on stateless vs. stateful server implementations, with a suggestion to allow implementations to decide.
*   **Updated W-pad Specification:**
    *   Discussion on the new iteration of the W-pad spec and ways to make it less dangerous.
    *   Added URN to explicitly state that there is no proxy on the network
*   **Multicast Port Assignments:**
    *   Proposal to assign a UDP port specifically for multicast applications.
    *   Discussion about security implications, especially regarding the reuse add or flag, and potential differences in usage between ASM and SSM.
    *   Concerns about port number ranges that were already assigned.
    *   Direction to work with TSVWG and the IANA port team on assigning the ports.
*   **MACSec Encryption:**
    *   Discussion on modifying MACSec engines for various transport types (MPLS, SRv6) by programming authentication and encryption offsets.
    *   Highlighting the need for a new Security Channel Identifier (SCI) for IP and MPLS domains.
    *   The potential move the key distribution MKA, to the IP domain.
    *   Simultaneous progression with the IEEE was encouraged to align with the design.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **ICMP Extensions:** The chairs will add the ICMP extension clarification draft to the list for an adoption call.
*   **ICMP Extensions (Node ID):** The authors will update the draft based on feedback, particularly concerning security considerations and the inclusion of IP address and name sub-objects.
*   **Reverse Traceroute:** Authors to add ipv6 testing and scenarios, to to-do list.
*   **Multicast Port Assignments:** Authors to look for port ranges that have not been assigned yet. Authors to work with TSVWG and the IANA port team on assigning the ports.
*   **MACSec Encryption:** Authors to work with the IEEE to document the data flows and look at addressing the use of IPv6 addresses.

## Next Steps

*   Adoption call for the ICMP extension clarification draft.
*   Continued discussion on the mailing list regarding the open issues on all drafts presented.
*   Updates to drafts based on feedback received during the meeting.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
