<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="mpls.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-MPLS-20241106-1300">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 06 Nov 2024 13:00</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># mpls

## Summary

This MPLS working group meeting covered a range of topics including document status updates, new draft presentations, and implementation updates. Key discussions revolved around stateless MNA-based egress protection, an implementation update on MNA framework, performance measurement using STAMP for SR, part segment updates, and deterministic network-specific MNA.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **MPLS MNA Header Draft:** The second working group last call failed, prompting concern from the chairs. Authors were urged to respond to expressed opinions or risk being replaced. There was discussion that it would be going experimental.
*   **IOM DEX Drafts:** Two adoption polls passed regarding ISD and PSD. The working group chairs requested the authors of both drafts to collaborate and combine them into a single document.
*   **Stateless MNA-based Egress Protection (SMAP):** Fabian presented a new draft proposing a stateless approach to egress protection using MNA. The discussion included:
    *   Generalizing the approach for local protection.
    *   Encoding bypass labels and potential alignment with segment routing.
    *   Concerns about scaling repair strategies for every hop.
    *   The amount of bits being wasted.
*   **MNA Framework Implementation Update:** Fabian presented an update on their P4-based MNA implementation, highlighting line-rate performance and use case evaluations. Discussions included:
    *   Differences between MNA header versions 5 and 8.
    *   The challenges posed by the label stack depth (RLD) and the potential need to signal the supported maximum size of a NAS.
    *   Questions about how stack size can be alleviated.
*   **Performance Measurement Using STAMP for SR:** Rakesh Gandhi presented a Spring working group document on using STAMP for SR MPLS data plane. Key points:
    *   Measurement modes (one-way, two-way, loopback).
    *   Use of network programming for loopback measurement with timestamp collection.
    *   Discussion about the use of an experimental ISD with an informational document.
*   **Part Segment Updates:** Sharmin provided an update on the part segment draft and addressed comments from the working group last call. Discussions included:
    *   The applicability depending on the tail end of an SR policy being informed of their SIDs.
    *   Synchronization state between Ingress and Egress for BGP and PCEP.
    *   Reference types in the document.
*   **Deterministic Network-Specific MNA:** Greg Mirsky presented a proposal for using MNA in deterministic networking (DetNet). Key points included:
    *   Using MNA for single sequence number space between data packets and active OAM packets.
    *   Discussion of collaboration with other drafts on DINET support.
    *   Discussion about ECMP.
*   **Post-Tech Data Considerations:** Multiple people weighed in on post-tech data, and how it challenges processing in the fast buffer.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **IOM DEX Drafts:** Authors of the two drafts to collaborate and produce a combined draft. Greg Muskie Erickson has already reached out to Rakesh Gandhi.
*   **MPLS MNA Header Draft:** Authors to address the outstanding concerns regarding document status.
*   **Stateless MNA-based Egress Protection (SMAP):** Encourage further discussion on the mailing list and potentially present to SPRING working group.
*   **Deterministic Network-Specific MNA:** Discuss and collaborate with relevant drafts on DINET support.

## Next Steps

*   Address outstanding issues for MPLS MNA Header draft.
*   Continue discussion on the mailing lists for presented drafts.
*   Consider further collaboration on DINET support.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
