<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="pce.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-PCE-20241106-1500">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 06 Nov 2024 15:00</p>
<h1>pce</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The PCE working group meeting covered the status of various drafts, including those in working group last call, adoption queue, and those needing further review and updates. Presentations were given on extensions for circuit-style policies, SIDLISO optimization, open message updates, and LSP report improvements. Discussions highlighted dependencies between drafts, encoding choices, and the potential benefits of new protocol features.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>PSEP Color Draft:</strong> Approaching IESG submission after one more update.</li>
<li><strong>State Sync and Flex Grid:</strong>  Need updates based on previous discussions.</li>
<li><strong>Sid Algo:</strong> Moving to working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>SR Part Segment:</strong> Has a normative dependency on a SPRING document.</li>
<li><strong>Entropy Label Position and IFIT:</strong> Implementation sections are missing.</li>
<li><strong>Interdom and Multipart:</strong> Review is needed. Open questions exist on whether to extend beyond the SPRING SR policy RFC.</li>
<li><strong>SRV6:</strong> Potentially ready for working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>FGOTN:</strong> Discussions around a liaison from Etsy and applicability of CCAM and PCU protocols.</li>
<li><strong>Control ID Space:</strong>  Needs resolution on whether a separate TLV is needed for SRGV and SRGV.</li>
<li><strong>PC Operational Draft:</strong> Splitting into two documents was proposed but no update received. Chairs would like to fast-track.</li>
<li><strong>Circuit-Style SR Policies:</strong> Presented extension to PCEP; discussed timing with SPRING WG last call.</li>
<li><strong>SIDLISO Optimization:</strong> Proposed draft on PCE extension for SR policy optimization; discussed potential merge with another draft.  Encoding choice questioned (LSP extended flag TLV vs. SR policy level).</li>
<li><strong>Open Message Updates:</strong> Presented a mechanism for updating open message content using notify messages; discussed scoping and handling of state changes. Concerns raised about broad scope and lack of guidance on handling specific TLV changes.</li>
<li><strong>LSP Report Extensions:</strong> Covered requested/allocated binding global values, transit eligibility, and explicit/dynamic candidate path types. Clarification is needed regarding explicit/loose paths.</li>
<li><strong>Bandwidth Latency (Deathlet):</strong> Updates from version 00 including alignment with data plane solutions. Awaiting developments in the DETNET working group regarding queuing solutions.</li>
<li><strong>PCEP Over Quick:</strong> Benefits questioned due to PCEP's long-standing session nature and lack of per-channel parallelism; suggestions given to align more with the NETCONF over quick document.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>PSEP Color Draft:</strong> A final update is needed before sending it to the IESG.</li>
<li><strong>State Sync and Flex Grid:</strong> Authors need to update based on feedback and comments from Adrian.</li>
<li><strong>Sid Algo:</strong> Prepare for working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Multipart:</strong> Authors to address the open question regarding extending beyond the SPRING SR policy RFC on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>PC Operational Draft:</strong>  Chairs to reach out to authors and see what steps can be taken to progress or split the document.</li>
<li><strong>SIDLISO Optimization:</strong>  Authors to merge with another draft and look for working group feedback. Encoding choice needs to be further discussed.</li>
<li><strong>Open Message Updates:</strong> Explore signaling which open content can be updated and consider soft reset mechanisms.</li>
<li><strong>LSP Report Extensions:</strong> Investigate interaction with existing binding sit draft. The e-flag needs to be reconciled with entropy label use. Clearly define the meaning of explicit path (strict vs. loose)</li>
<li><strong>Bandwidth Latency:</strong> Await progress in the DETNET working group. Author to also align the jitter definition with that used by DetNet.</li>
<li><strong>PCEP Over Quick:</strong> Authors to provide data demonstrating the need for this approach.  Authors need to review the document with &quot;quick glasses&quot; and align with NETCONF over quick document.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to address action items and provide updates on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Progress drafts towards working group last call where appropriate.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on open issues and design choices on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
