<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="pim.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-PIM-20241108-1300">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 08 Nov 2024 13:00</p>
<h1>pim</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The PIM working group meeting covered several important topics, including rechartering, progress on existing drafts, and presentations on new draft proposals. The rechartering discussion focused on expanding the scope of the working group to explicitly include areas like segment routing, LISP multicast, group address allocation, and experience documents. Presentations covered multi-topology PIM, PFM enhancements for EVPN multi-homing, PFM forwarding enhancements, PIM backup DR procedures, zero-configuration multicast, and multicast snooping optimizations.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Rechartering:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The current charter is seen as limiting the scope of work.</li>
<li>Proposed changes include explicit mentions of Segment Routing, LISP multicast, group address allocation protocols, and experience documents.</li>
<li>The working group will proceed with a last call on the proposed recharter text.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>IGMP/MLD Snooping (RFC 4541):</strong>
<ul>
<li>The current RFC leads to non-optimal traffic distribution.</li>
<li>The group discussed possible updates and clarifying ambiguities in the RFC regarding forwarding rules.</li>
<li>It was suggested to update the RFC instead of rewriting it.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Multi-Topology PIM (FlexAlgo):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Addressed the gap between existing FlexAlgo drafts and this draft.</li>
<li>Presented PIM extensions for multi-topology routing.</li>
<li>LSR working group is aware and coordinating.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>PFM Extensions for EVPN Multi-homing:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Addressed the problem of multicast traffic not reaching receivers in multi-homed EVPN environments.</li>
<li>Proposed PFM flooding mechanism to inform routers about active sources.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>PFM Forwarding Enhancements:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Proposed a new TLV for adding additional information about a flow to PFM messages.</li>
<li>Discussed a forwarding enhancement for PFM messages over multiple point-to-point links.</li>
<li>Addressed back compatibility.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>PIM Backup DR Procedures:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Limited the scope of the draft to backup DR election without PIM extensions and sticky DR behavior.</li>
<li>Discussed the need for IANA registry registration for the sticky DR behavior.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Zero-Configuration Multicast:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Provided an update on the proof-of-concept implementation.</li>
<li>Discussed the maturity of the drafts and the possibility of a working group last call.</li>
<li>Suggested getting input from application-focused working groups in the IETF.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Multipath Proxy for Multicast:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussed solutions for the support of multiple upstream interfaces.</li>
<li>Addressed the challenges of the subscriber-based upstream selection.</li>
<li>Discussed security considerations, for instance, the malicious applications that request content for multiple interfaces or create congestion.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Rechartering:</strong> The working group chairs will prepare the recharter text and send it to the mailing list for a two-week working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Multi-Topology PIM:</strong> The group will take the adoption of this draft to the list.</li>
<li><strong>IGMP/MLD Snooping:</strong> Nate Carson will start with a smaller update for RFC 4541.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Working group chairs to prepare and send the rechartering proposal to the mailing list.</li>
<li>Working group to discuss and decide on the next steps for the draft updates presented in the meeting, particularly those related to multicast snooping.</li>
<li>Authors to incorporate feedback received during the meeting into their respective drafts.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
