<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="scone.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-SCONE-20241107-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 07 Nov 2024 09:30</p>
<h1>scone</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The first working group meeting for SCONE focused on establishing the group's goals, reviewing existing protocol proposals (NRLP, Mask-based, and Scone Train), and determining next steps towards standardization. A key point of discussion was defining the scope of the working group's efforts, specifically the interpretation of &quot;limiters&quot; and &quot;limits&quot; within the network. The group decided on a two-track approach moving forward, one focused on the format/syntax of data being exchanged and another focused on the content/semantics.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Charter Scope:</strong> Extensive debate arose regarding the scope of the charter, particularly concerning the definition of &quot;limiters&quot; (active devices enforcing rate limits) versus &quot;limits&quot; (inherent path limitations).  The applicability of the solutions to scenarios with or without active traffic shaping was discussed.</li>
<li><strong>Endpoint Definition:</strong> Clarification was sought on the definition of &quot;endpoint,&quot; considering scenarios involving MAS proxies and tunnels. The question of whether the endpoint refers to the congestion controller or the ultimate sender was raised.</li>
<li><strong>Protocol Proposals:</strong>
<ul>
<li><strong>NRLP:</strong> Matt presented NRLP, emphasizing its deployability and alignment with existing network practices. Key features include trust-based security, fairness to applications, transport protocol independence, and immunity against UDP flow table changes.</li>
<li><strong>Mask-based:</strong> Marcus presented a proposal using MAS proxies for throughput advice, focusing on integrating with existing MAS connections and a simple wire format.</li>
<li><strong>Scone Train:</strong> Martin presented Scone Train, attaching signals to flows and using a special quick version for packet marking. Security and privacy implications were highlighted.</li>
<li><strong>Scone Quick Protocol:</strong> Matt presented Scone Quick Protocol, sending specialized packets that resemble quick initials, potentially easier to be implemented into existing practices.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Throughput Advice Content:</strong> Discussions centered on the specific information to be included in throughput advice, such as averaging windows, burst rates, and the overall profile of the throughput.</li>
<li><strong>Bi-directional Throughput Advice:</strong> Ian expressed the need for bi-directional throughput advice, raising questions about whether a single or two separate mechanisms were needed.</li>
<li><strong>Multiple Network Elements</strong>: The question of which signal takes precedence in case of multiple network elements providing advice was discussed.</li>
<li><strong>Multi-path and Connection Migration:</strong> The need for solutions that accommodate multi-path and connection migration, especially regarding ephemeral ports, was emphasized.</li>
<li><strong>Design Team vs. Work Streams:</strong> Debate ensued regarding the best approach for advancing the work, with opinions ranging from forming a design team to pursuing parallel work streams within the working group. Ultimately the community decided to take a two-track approach.</li>
<li><strong>Use Cases</strong>: Several participants mentioned the need to better define use cases in order to create useful and effective proposals.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Two Work Streams:</strong>  The group agreed to proceed with two parallel work streams:
<ul>
<li>One focused on the syntax and framing of the protocol.</li>
<li>The other focused on the content and semantics of throughput advice.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Utilize IETF IWG SCONE Repo:</strong> All documents should be merged into the IETF IWG SCONE Repo.</li>
<li><strong>Address Deployability and Security</strong>: The group agreed to incorporate deployment considerations and security concerns into the protocol design from the very beginning.</li>
<li><strong>Propose a Design Team</strong>: Although two tracks were decided, the chair plans to take further suggestion of creating a design team to the mailing list, with the expectation that multiple people can offer their input.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Schedule Virtual Interim Meetings:</strong> The chairs will schedule three virtual interim meetings between now and the Bangkok IETF meeting. The first meeting will focus on synthesizing the protocol proposals.</li>
<li><strong>Call for volunteers</strong>: The chairs plan to create a request to sign up for the two-track effort over the mailing list, in order to determine who will be in each group.</li>
<li><strong>Implement First</strong>: Group members plan to code up their ideas as quick as possible, in order to have a more concise discussion.</li>
<li><strong>Mailing List Discussions:</strong> Continued discussions on the mailing list are crucial for defining use cases, clarifying protocol requirements, and converging on a standardized approach.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
