<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="snac.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-SNAC-20241104-1300">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 04 Nov 2024 13:00</p>
<h1>snac</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The SNAC (Stub Network Auto-Configuration) working group met to discuss the current status of their draft document, &quot;snac-simple.&quot;  Key topics included reviewing recently closed issues, open pull requests, next steps, and outstanding issues.  The discussion focused on clarifying definitions, improving diagrams, and aligning constants with existing RFCs.  The group also discussed the potential for a follow-on document addressing managed infrastructure scenarios and possible charter updates.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Chair Update:</strong> Introduction of David Ruh as the new chair, replacing Kiran.</li>
<li><strong>RFC8505bis</strong>: The RA flag draft moved to the IESG, and an early allocation has been made for the RA bit/flag.</li>
<li><strong>Draft Progress:</strong>  Revision 6 of the &quot;snac-simple&quot; draft was uploaded today. Discussion focused on the changes, primarily related to clarifying the role of SNAC routers.</li>
<li><strong>Diagrams:</strong>  Concerns raised about the ASCII art diagram in the draft, with a suggestion to migrate to SVG for improved clarity. Discussion of adding scenarios, such as multiple snack routers connected to same stub network.</li>
<li><strong>Terminology:</strong>  Discussion around the use of &quot;Home Gateway&quot; vs. &quot;CE Router&quot; and aligning definitions with RFC 7084. Agreement to use &quot;CE Router&quot; for consistency.</li>
<li><strong>Constants:</strong>  Question regarding the constants section of the draft containing definitions and existing IPv6 parameters, especially beacon intervals. Need to align values with those defined in RFC 4861. Randomization of the beacon interval value was proposed.</li>
<li><strong>Managed Infrastructure:</strong> Discussion of possible future work that include managed network, and possible new document.</li>
<li><strong>Follow-on Document:</strong> A follow-on document addressing managed infrastructure scenarios and the interactions between SNAC routers and CE routers was discussed. This would potentially require a charter update.</li>
<li><strong>DHCP Prefix Delegation:</strong> Discussions on how DHCP prefix delegation would work. There is no IETF standard to relay DHCPv6-PD message between Stub Network and infrastructure.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Diagram Update:</strong> Update the ASCII art diagram to SVG format, including scenarios with multiple snack routers connected to the same stub network.  (Action: Kieran, Ted)</li>
<li><strong>Terminology Consistency:</strong>  Replace &quot;Home Gateway&quot; with &quot;CE Router&quot; throughout the document, ensuring alignment with RFC 7084.</li>
<li><strong>Constant Alignment:</strong> Review the constants section and align values and naming with RFC 4861, especially regarding beacon intervals, and add randomization of the value. (Action: Ted)</li>
<li><strong>Issue Tracker:</strong> Open a new issue to track the alignment of constants with RFC 4861. (Action: Ted)</li>
<li><strong>CE Router Behavior:</strong> Investigate documenting the snooping behavior of CE routers on the relay of DHCPv6-PD, and the way CE routers update the routing table.</li>
<li><strong>Shepherds:</strong> Tim and someone who has not shepherd a document before will shepherd the document.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Mailing List Discussion:</strong> Continue discussions on the mailing list, especially regarding constant names and state machine updates.</li>
<li><strong>Publish Revision 7:</strong> Publish a new revision (Revision 7) of the &quot;snac-simple&quot; draft after addressing the action items and mailing list feedback.</li>
<li><strong>Document Shepherd:</strong> Shepherd the document.</li>
<li><strong>Six-Man Review</strong>: Have the 6-man working group review any relevant output of new charter work.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
