**Session Date/Time:** 06 Nov 2024 09:30

# spring

## Summary
This session covered several updates and discussions related to SPRING working group drafts. Key topics included working group rechartering, a new process for adoption and working group last call, security considerations for SRv6, and updates on various drafts related to segment routing policies, DHCPv6, and more. The chairs emphasized the importance of working group engagement and provided guidance on how to improve draft quality and speed up the IETF process.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **Working Group Rechartering:** The charter has been submitted to the AD for review and simplifies text while removing work items. The Datatracker will reflect current work items.
*   **Working Group Engagement:** Emphasis on active participation, reviews with technical comments, and discussions on the mailing list. Authors should explain the importance of their drafts and engage the working group.
*   **Adoption and Working Group Last Call Process:** Adoption requires demonstrated working group engagement. Authors must solicit feedback. Shepherds will be assigned for working group last call to ensure issues have been addressed.
*   **Security Draft:** Discussion on incorporating RFC 9602 and SIDS space draft.  Request for an early security directorate review was made.
*   **SRv6 Context Indicator SID:** Updates on the draft and discussion of static vs. dynamic context indicator SIDs.
*   **FormMAP 6 Segments:** Overview of the draft which defines a new segment type for IPv4/IPv6 coexistence in IPv6-only networks.
*   **Encoding Network Slices:**  Discussion around encoding network slice identifiers (SLID) in the IPv6 header. Focus on inter-operability with tested routers. Update on terminology to align with TSWG to use RPID instead of SLID.
*   **LLDP Extensions for SRv6:**  Presentation on using LLDP to advertise SRv6 locators. Concerns were raised about modifying a protocol defined by another standards body (IEEE).  Suggestions were made to use NDP or DHCPv6 instead.
*   **SFC Architecture with SR-aware Functions:**  Discussion on using BGP-LS to gather information about network functions. Raised concerns on the amount of attributes needed in BGP-LS and whether existing network functions can support BGP-LS.

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **Authors:** Update documents based on feedback received during the meeting and continue discussions on the mailing list. Provide regular updates to the chairs.
*   **Chairs:** Assign shepherds for drafts approaching working group last call. Track document progress and working group engagement via a public spreadsheet on the Datatracker. Request security directorate review for the Security Draft focusing on the threat model.
*   **Volunteers:** Review the drafts, particularly the Security Draft, and provide feedback.

## Next Steps
*   Authors to provide updates on their drafts before each meeting
*   Chairs to assign a shepherd for the `spring-vfd` draft.
*   Authors to update the spring wiki with the best practices for WG adoption and last call.
*   Authors of the Yang modules draft will be contacted to assess their interest in continuing the work, otherwise a call for alternative maintainers will be issued.
