**Session Date/Time:** 07 Nov 2024 17:30

# suit

## Summary

This SUIT working group meeting covered the status of several drafts, including manifest format, trust domains, firmware encryption, update status reporting, MUD, MTI, and update management. The group discussed outstanding issues, author action items, and potential document shepherds.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **SUIT Manifest Format:** Discussions revolved around addressing comments from Murray and Paul, as well as resolving issues with examples and IANA considerations. Thomas Fossati pointed out errors in the examples' seabor EDN.
*   **SUIT Manufacturing Extension for Multiple Trust Domains:** The draft is under review, awaiting author responses to comments. Debate about referencing RFC1990 for multiple trust domains occured, with Deb and Dave arguing to keep the reference.
*   **SUIT Firmware Encryption:** Martin Thomson and Ron Bonica provided reviews. Martin's review resulted in editorial changes. Hannes and Maurek noted concerns on the use of component indexes in suit dependencies. Chris Kwiatkowski volunteered to review the document.
*   **SUIT Secure Reporting of Update Status:** The draft is nearing working group last call, and a document shepherd is needed.
*   **SUIT MUD and Manifest:** These drafts are dependent on the I-Cose key thumbprint draft. Roman is currently holding the Manifest, and the group decided to inquire about the hold.
*   **SUIT MTI:** The draft is under working group last call. The addition of PQC algorithms is deferred until JOSE finishes them. A document shepherd is needed.
*   **SUIT Update Management Extension:** The draft is under working group last call and needs a shepherd write up.
*   **Tooling for IETF documents:** Dave highlighted the lack of a common place where authors can get information on helpful tips and tricks for using IETF's tooling.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Manifest Format:** Brendan to follow up with Paul Wouters on his comments and CC Russ on the communication.
*   **SUIT MUD and Manifest:** Chairs to inquire with Roman about why he is holding the Manifest.
*   **SUIT MTI:** Russ volunteered to be document shepherd.
*   **SUIT Update Management Extension:** Hannes volunteered to be document shepherd.
*   **SUIT Firmware Encryption:** Chris Kwiatkowski volunteered to review the document, working with Hannes.
*   **SUIT Trust Domains:** Ken to provide IPR confirmation.
*   **SUIT Trust Domains:** Hannes to add an issue to the issue tracker detailing the concerns about implicit component indexes in suit dependencies.
*   **Tooling for IETF documents:** Carson to post a mail with a link to relevant information.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to address remaining comments and issues in their respective drafts.
*   Working group chairs to initiate working group last calls where applicable.
*   Document shepherds to begin their write-ups.
