<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="teas.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF121-TEAS-20241108-1300">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 08 Nov 2024 13:00</p>
<h1>teas</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The TEAS working group session at IETF 121 covered the status of various working group documents, including those in the IESG for publication, those undergoing working group last call, and individual documents. Presentations were given on several key drafts, focusing on topology models (SR/SRT, SF-Aware, ACTN), network slicing, NRP, and RSVP authentication. Discussions addressed open issues, dependencies, and potential next steps for each document. Adoption polls were conducted for the &quot;POI for service assurance&quot; draft, and the session concluded with a hackathon update on T-topology graphical display.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Working Group Document Status:</strong> Updates were provided on documents in various stages of the publication process. Specific attention was given to reviving expired documents and progressing those nearing last call.</li>
<li><strong>ACTN Performance Monitoring Analytics:</strong> A call was made for review in anticipation of working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>TE Topology Profiles:</strong> Ongoing discussions in and mop about the use of topology profiles were highlighted, with a reference to a related hackathon update. The need for automatic tools to generate profiles was discussed.</li>
<li><strong>L3TM Topology:</strong> Discussion focused on a comment from the routing directorate review regarding packet switch capable augmentations. It was suggested to add sufficient text to the introduction to address this concern. Reviewing the title was also suggested to avoid confusion.</li>
<li><strong>RFC876 Update:</strong> The authors were asked to address a new set of comments received.</li>
<li><strong>SR and SRT Topologies on MPLS Data Plane:</strong> The Young Doctor review was completed, but further reviews were welcome.</li>
<li><strong>SF Aware TE Topology:</strong> There were previous issues with image formats in the document and need to find a way to fix them</li>
<li><strong>ACTN Applicability Statement:</strong> Open issues regarding the relationship between T-topology and sub-topology, and the need for multi-LTPs were discussed.</li>
<li><strong>5G Network Slice Application:</strong> The authors will add clarifying text about the relationship of what they are describing in respect to the release 17 and release 18 in 3GPP. A liaison will be sent to 3GPP asking them to give this review.</li>
<li><strong>NRP Scalability Considerations:</strong> Discussion of the Dedicated ID field. Agreement that it should be named <code>data plane identifier</code>. On the mailing list, the feedback so far shows that it is okay to have different ID lengths for different data planes, as they may have different applicability and also their encoding can be different.</li>
<li><strong>RSVP Authentication v2:</strong> Focus on generalizing the document by taking out MD5 to allow it to be modular and more compatible with other ciphers.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>L3TM Topology:</strong> The authors will propose text on the mailing list clarifying the scope of packet switch capable augmentations in the introduction and text/name cleanup.</li>
<li><strong>SF Aware TE Topology:</strong> Authors will fix the images.</li>
<li><strong>ACTN Applicability Statement:</strong> Authors will start discussion threads on the mailing list for the two open issues (T-topology/sub-topology relationship, multi-LTPs).</li>
<li><strong>5G Network Slice Application:</strong> A liaison will be sent to 3GPP asking them to give this review.</li>
<li><strong>NRP Scalability Considerations:</strong> The authors are requested to send the text that is suggesting that extending routing protocols may be required because it is causing the main point of that section to be diluted.</li>
<li><strong>RSVP Authentication v2:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Obsolete RFC 2747.</li>
<li>Send a note to TSVWG regarding the updates to base RSVP.</li>
<li>Reach out to SAG for review of key management and crypto space considerations.</li>
<li>Add RFC 6150 as a reference.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to address open issues and feedback received during the session.</li>
<li>Working group to review updated drafts.</li>
<li>Progress documents towards working group last call.</li>
<li>Continue discussion of key issues on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Explore potential work items for the next hackathon.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
