**Session Date/Time:** 21 Mar 2025 02:30

# 6man

## Summary

The 6man working group meeting in Bangkok covered several topics related to IPv6, including ICMP reflection, node requirements, Slack robustness, SRv6, and header limits. Discussions focused on the technical details of proposed drafts, their applicability, and potential overlaps with other working groups. Decisions were made to progress some drafts to working group last call while others require further refinement and coordination with other groups.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **ICMP Reflection Utility:** Discussion about the necessity and implementation of a utility to diagnose packet changes in flight, including concerns about security policy violations and alternative methods using trace route.
*   **IPv6 Node Requirements:** Debate regarding the inclusion of MUST requirements for specific RFCs (e.g., 8028 for multi-prefix handling), considering implementation realities and the potential impact on security profiles. Also, a discussion about handling header limits in the node requirements doc.
*   **Slack Robustness:** Updates on a draft aimed at improving Slack's resilience to flash renumbering events, with considerations for packet loss rates and security implications.
*   **SRv6 Clarification:** Discussion on a draft aiming to clarify the definition of the SID list in SRv6, addressing concerns about compression and future extensions.
*    **Prefix Specific Link Local Addresses:** Discussion about the use of different link-local addresses to differentiate between prefixes in order to prevent traffic leaking after prefix renumbering.
*   **Send CGA:** Strong objections raised regarding the reinstatement of SEND in IPv6 node requirements, citing lack of deployment experience and potential security concerns.
*   **Deterministic Forwarding:** Presentation on a proposal for deterministic forwarding in IPv6 using a variant of CRH, raising concerns about the experimental nature of CRH and potential overlaps with other groups.
*   **Aggregate Header Limit:** Discussion on defining and collecting aggregate header limit (AHL) in IPv6, with concerns about security implications and the need for coordination with other encapsulation methods.
*  **SRV-6 Validation:** Discussion about defining methods to validate SRV6 related information.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **ICMP Reflection Utility:** Authors to consider comments regarding trace route functionality and security implications. Zafar to provide proposed text on the list.
*   **IPv6 Node Requirements:**
    *   Authors to reconsider MUST requirement for RFC 8028, considering implementation challenges.
    *   Authors to remove/rework normative text on header limits in the node requirement document.
    *   Authors to talk about this goal. Resolve the open issues.
*   **Slack Robustness:** Draft to proceed to working group last call.
*   **SRv6 Clarification:** Authors to update the draft as an update to 8754, with updates text and explanation. Chairs to discuss which working group should own it. Spring chairs to discuss with spring.
*   **Prefix Specific Link Local Addresses:** Authors to discuss with the group the option to describe this as Implicit PVD.
*   **Send CGA:** No action taken; the consensus is against reinstating SEND in IPv6 node requirements.
*   **Deterministic Forwarding:** Presenters to seek feedback from the networking group regarding the problem statement and proposed solution.
*   **Aggregate Header Limit:** Presenters to continue discussion on the mailing list.
*   **SRV-6 Validation:** The presenter must present this document in Spring, and obtain their go-ahead before proceeding.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to revise drafts based on meeting feedback and mailing list discussions.
*   Chairs to coordinate with other working groups (e.g., SPRING, BESS, networking) regarding overlapping topics and potential joint work.
*   Working group last calls to be initiated for approved drafts.
*   Continue discussions on the mailing list.
