<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="avtcore.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-AVTCORE-20250320-0800">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 20 Mar 2025 08:00</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># avtcore

## Summary

The avtcore meeting at IETF 122 covered a wide range of topics, including draft statuses, updates on adopted drafts, and presentations on new proposals. Key discussions revolved around RTP/QUIC, haptics, volumetric media, and encryption. Decisions were made regarding working group last calls for several drafts, and action items were assigned to the chairs and draft authors.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Draft Status:** Discussion on RFC publication of RTP payload registries and the remaining issues on other drafts.
*   **Green Metadata and Further Draft:**  Concerns raised about lack of feedback from the RTP side of Green Metadata.  Discussion about issues surrounding SDP negotiation for the further draft, a second working group last call requested.
*   **S-Frame:**  Interest expressed in S-Frame for end-to-end encryption in WebRTC. The document should be put in park status temporarily until folks can determine whether its use is necessary for WebRTC.
*   **RTP/QUIC:** Interrupt testing updates with new implementations being tested. SDP work is ongoing, and a decision was made to proceed with an initial working group last call witholding pub req.
*   **SDP for RoQ:** Comments and concerns about the complexity of interaction between RoQ and Bundle and the need for peer-to-peer RoQ setup. Discussion about flow ID.
*   **Haptics:** Draft is considered ready for a working group last call after incorporating review comments.
*   **VDMC:** Updates based on feedback from MPEG specifications, with a focus on VDMC grouping and SDP parameters. More group review is desired before group adoption.
*   **APB:** Codec specification updates, including the introduction of two-layer frames. Discussions on the marker bit usage and fragment counter.
*   **Encryption Detection:** Presentation on a method for detecting encoding corruption using RTP header extensions.
*   **Frame Decoded Feedback:** Presentation on a proposal for providing feedback on decoded frames to allow senders to reason about the state of reference buffers.
*   **Geometry-Based Point-Cloud Compression:** Update on the payload format for GPCC, focusing on the length field in aggregation units.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **S-Frame:** Put the S-Frame document in park status, and document the reasoning on the mailing list.
*   **RTP/QUIC:** Proceed with an initial working group last call.
*   **SDP for RoQ:** Spencer and Victor will respond to a few comments from Harold and Jonathan in the next version of the draft.
*   **Haptics:** Proceed with a working group last call.
*   **Chairs:**
    *   Share meeting notes in the session notes in the Datatracker.
    *   Schedule an interim meeting in May or June.

## Next Steps

*   Draft authors to address feedback and prepare updated versions.
*   Working group to review drafts under last call and provide comments.
*   Chairs to schedule an interim meeting.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
