**Session Date/Time:** 20 Mar 2025 02:30

# cdni

## Summary
The CDNI working group meeting in Bangkok covered charter changes, a review of several documents from the SVTA configuration interface, discussion on a private features draft, updates on protected secrets and triggers documents, and a revisit of the named footprint document. A call for volunteers for document review and shepherding was also made.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **Charter Changes:** Discussion focused on clarifying the scope of the charter, particularly regarding the Metadata Expression Language (MEL) and the use of existing vs. defining new protocols. The group considered extending the MEL's application beyond the metadata interface.
*   **SVTA Documents:** Glenn presented nine documents related to the SVTA configuration interface. Discussions included minor wording changes, additions to support SNI, and new metadata objects for CAT token-based delivery configurations.
*   **Private Features Draft:** There was significant debate regarding the need for a private features mechanism within CDNI. Concerns were raised about redundancy, the creation of separate registries, and potential interoperability issues. Ultimately, it was decided that the CDNI working group would not adopt the draft in its current form. The SVTA is free to register it itself.
*   **Protected Secrets Draft:** Ben provided an update on the protected secrets draft, with the primary change being the formalization of the encoding of secret values and certificates using PEM encoding.
*   **CDNI Triggers Draft:** Alan presented updates to the triggers draft, including changes based on Brett Mertens' feedback, support for conditional requests, adoption of UUIDv4 for trigger identification, and restrictions on diamond configurations. The group discussed the interaction of the metadata object and how the content object can be mapped to a config.
*   **CDNI Named Footprint Document:** Alan explained the update for the FCI and its restful interface. It was decided that the named footprint document would focus on metadata object definitions, while the interface would be addressed in a separate document.
*   **Document Review and Shepherding:** A strong call was made for volunteers to review documents and serve as document shepherds.

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **Charter Changes:** Chris will send out an updated charter to the list for review within two weeks, after which it will be sent to the Area Director.
*   **SVTA Documents:** It was requested that the five documents that are individual drafts need more reviews to get them into the working group.
*   **Private Features Draft:** The CDNI working group will not adopt the private features draft. The SVTA can register a metadata type.
*   **Protected Secrets Draft:** Ben will review Chris's comments and target for last call during the next IETF meeting.
*   **Alan will review his notes on Kevin's comments.**
*   **Reviews:** Rajeev will review client access control document in the next couple of weeks. Sanjay is going to review edge control and cache control before the end of March.
*   **Volunteers Needed:** Continued solicitation of volunteers to review all drafts and consider becoming document shepherds.
*   **Name Footprints/FCI:** It was decided that the named footprint document would focus on metadata object definitions, while the interface would be addressed in a separate document.

## Next Steps
*   Chris to circulate the updated charter.
*   Community to review documents and volunteer for shepherding.
*   SVTA to consider registering their private features if they want to.
*   Ben to prepare Protected Secrets draft for last call.
*   Alan to prepare updated Trigger draft for last call.
