**Session Date/Time:** 19 Mar 2025 02:30

```markdown
# httpapi

## Summary

The HTTP API working group met to discuss the status of several documents, including updates on the API Catalog (nearing RFC status), Link Hints, Rest API Media Types, and Rate Limit Fields. A new draft proposal for JSON Schema was also presented. The group discussed next steps for these documents, including working group last call and further review.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **API Catalog:** The API catalog document is in the RFC queue and expected to be published soon.
*   **Link Hints:** Updates to the Link Hints draft were mentioned, and attendees were encouraged to review the changes and provide feedback.
*   **Rest API Media Types:** Updates to the Legacy Named Rest API Media Types draft (Open API media type registration) were presented. Key discussion points included:
    *   Whether to support the `object` parameter for referencing partial Open API descriptions (current thinking is to not support).
    *   Whether to support Open API version 2.0 (current thinking is to support all versions).
*   **Rate Limit Fields:** Updates to the Rate Limit Fields draft were presented. Key discussion points included:
    *   Adding references to structured fields for item, list, and parameter.
    *   A window parameter must be a positive integer.
    *   New problem types: quota exceeded, temporarily reduced capacity, and abnormally usage detected.
    *   Introducing a "Cost" unit for rate limiting (requires more client-server coupling).
    *   Discussion on whether the server should return cost information as part of the response.
*   **New JSON Schema Proposal:** Clemens presented a new draft proposal for JSON Schema, aiming for a data structure definition language at its core. The proposal included:
    *   Names and namespaces.
    *   Richer primitive type system.
    *   Extended set of compound types.
    *   Redone type reuse mechanisms.
    *   Separation of pattern matching validation rules.
    *   Discussion on naming, venue, and potential confusion with existing JSON Schema drafts.
*   **HTTP API Privacy:** Updates to this document are pending and will be incorporated before considering working group last call.
*   **Digest Field Problem Types:** Discussion on a draft for problem types for digest fields, including:
    *   Removing the calculated digest from error responses to prevent Oracle attacks.
    *   Whether to include problem types for message signatures in this draft or a separate draft (the group agreed to keep signatures separate due to complexity and security concerns).
*   **Expired Documents:** Two expired documents were identified and discussed. The chairs will contact the authors to determine their interest in continuing the work.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Rest API Media Types:** The authors will wrap up the remaining issues and bring the document to working group last call.
*   **Rate Limit Fields:** The working group will consider whether to add a new property to return cost information in the response. If no further changes are needed, the document will move to working group last call by the next IETF meeting.
*   **New JSON Schema Proposal:** The group will read the draft and provide feedback. The chairs will discuss with the ADs to determine the appropriate venue for the work. Clemens will receive the feedback.
*   **HTTP API Privacy:** Mike Bishop will incorporate the pending updates before considering working group last call.
*   **Digest Field Problem Types:** Marius and Lucas will proceed with a separate draft and remove the signature types.
*   **Expired Documents:** The chairs will contact the authors to gauge their interest in continuing the work.

## Next Steps

*   Rest API Media Types: Last call
*   Rate Limit Fields: Discuss the new property for the return cost
*   New JSON Schema Proposal: Post the links to art mailing list, request working group feedback, ADs to work together on where to go with the documents.
*   HTTP API Privacy: Mike and Rich will talk.
*   Digest Field Problem Types: Marius and Lucas will work together to remove the signature types.
*   Expired Documents: Chairs will contact the authors.
