<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="lake.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-LAKE-20250318-1000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 18 Mar 2025 10:00</p>
<h1>lake</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The LAKE working group meeting covered updates on several draft documents including lightweight authorization (ad-hoc), application profiles, implementation considerations, remote attestation, and pre-shared key authentication. Discussions also included quantum resistance for ad-hoc and the bundle protocol. The group discussed future steps and open issues for each document.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Lightweight Authorization (ad-hoc):</strong> Reverse flow implementation was discussed, addressing issue 21.  The changes involve the device (U) acting as the responder.  Editorial updates include clarifying cipher suite selection, addressing typos, and acknowledging funding.</li>
<li><strong>Application Profiles:</strong> Focus on numeric identifiers for prearranged profiles. Draft was adopted and revisions made based on Michael Richardson's comments.  Advertising support parameters in ad-hoc messages was discussed. The working group also discussed canonical representation of application profiles and whether a JSON equivalent is needed.</li>
<li><strong>Implementation Considerations:</strong> Updates to the reference considering RFC publication. Consistency checks of authentication credentials specified in multiple ways during a single ad-hoc session were discussed.</li>
<li><strong>Remote Attestation (RA):</strong> Draft has been adopted, focusing on updates based on Michael and June's comments. A simplified version for attestation using pre-existing relationships was added. The addition of an appendix for continuous attestation was proposed.</li>
<li><strong>Pre-shared Key (PSK) Authentication:</strong> Corrections made after adoption.  Discussion around message 3 structure and transcript hash computation. Adding identity to the subfield of the Great PSK. Formal analysis is requested for the document once it reaches sufficient stability.</li>
<li><strong>Quantum Resistance:</strong>  Discussion on how to add quantum resistance to ad-hoc.  Standard PQC algorithms are drop-in replacements for key exchange and signatures in ad-hoc method one. The viability of PSK was considered. Hybrid approaches were also briefly touched upon.</li>
<li><strong>Bundle Protocol:</strong> A potential use case for embedding ad-hoc in a larger security negotiation protocol for delay-tolerant networks was presented. The presentation focused on using EAD items to transport upper-level information in a environment with high and variable delay.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item (Chairs):</strong> Update the milestones on Datatracker with appropriate dates.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item (Chairs):</strong> Schedule an interim meeting before IETF 123 in Madrid.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item (Giovanni):</strong> Revise the Lightweight Authorization draft, specifically addressing the comment of Tom Wechers.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item (Elsa):</strong> Respond to Tom Wechers' comments on the security claims of the pre-shared key draft in the next revision.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item (Brian):</strong> Submit an Internet Draft for the bundle protocol ad-hoc use case.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Lightweight Authorization (ad-hoc):</strong> Detailed review and implementation testing.</li>
<li><strong>Application Profiles:</strong> Adding more examples and well-known profiles.</li>
<li><strong>Implementation Considerations:</strong> Elaborate on the enforcement of null and in policy</li>
<li><strong>Remote Attestation:</strong> Clarify and correct the section arrow handling, add the section for the water fires.</li>
<li><strong>Pre-shared Key (PSK) Authentication:</strong> Add test vectors and eventually call for a formal analysis once the protocol is stable.</li>
<li><strong>Quantum Resistance:</strong> Continue discussing and waiting on the algorithms to be standardized in COSI.</li>
<li><strong>Bundle Protocol:</strong> Get an actual internet draft out for this use so that people can can focus on more of the technical detail and ask the working group to assign some review for it.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
