<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="lsvr.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-LSVR-20250320-1000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 20 Mar 2025 10:00</p>
<h1>lsvr</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The LSVR working group meeting covered several key topics: a liaison from IEEE 802.1, a review and discussion of the L3DL deliverable, and a new draft on extensions to support SRV6 in BGP-LS/SPF address family.  The group discussed how to respond to the IEEE 802.1 liaison, the status of the L3DL document, and the SRV6 draft in BGP-LS/SPF including whether extensions are necessary and if so, what detail should be included.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>IEEE 802.1 Liaison:</strong> IEEE 802.1 believes LLDP is sufficient and widely deployed, questioning the need for L3DL. They suggest discussing the way forward together. The group acknowledged the need to respond to the liaison and discussed potential approaches, including using an experimental EtherType or exploring alternative designs.  There was a suggestion for an interim meeting to discuss the issue with IEEE 802.1 representatives.</li>
<li><strong>L3DL Status:</strong> The base documents for L3DL are in the RFC editor queue. The Yang model is progressing, with updates expected.</li>
<li><strong>L3DL Draft Discussion:</strong> Randy Bush presented the L3DL draft, explaining the differences between L3DL and LLDPv2, highlighting the benefits of massive scale, security, and the ability to announce beyond the endpoint.  A key point was the distinction between overlay and underlay addresses. AC Lindem requested further elaboration on the concepts in the draft.</li>
<li><strong>SRV6 in BGP-LS/SPF Draft:</strong> Li Zhang presented the new draft for extensions to support SRV6 in BGP-LS/SPF. Sunny Zhang questioned the need for new extensions, suggesting reuse of existing SRV6 extensions if possible. Discussion arose regarding the inclusion of SR algorithm TLV and associated implications (e.g., flex-algo support). AC Lindem suggested more explanation of how the TLVs are used in route computation. There was a suggestion on streamlining the document via referencing applicable BGP-LS definitions where possible.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Schedule an interim meeting in April with IEEE 802.1 representatives (including Glenn and Paul from 802.1, Janos, Ross). Randy Bush offered a Zoom account for the meeting.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Randy Bush to update the L3DL draft to address comments, specifically including a better explanation of the overlay/underlay concepts and clarifying the MPLS section.  He will also incorporate reviews.</li>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> The working group will consider adoption of the SRV6 in BGP-LS/SPF draft.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> The chairs to issue an adoption call for the SRV6 in BGP-LS/SPF draft.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Li Zhang will add more elaboration to the SRV6 draft on how to use SRV6 related TLVs in the context of BGP-LS/SPF</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Schedule and hold the interim meeting with IEEE 802.1.</li>
<li>Randy Bush to update the L3DL draft based on feedback.</li>
<li>Prepare and issue adoption call for the SRV6 in BGP-LS/SPF draft.</li>
<li>Authors to address comments on the SRV6 draft for BGP-LS/SPF.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
