<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="mediaman.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-MEDIAMAN-20250318-1000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 18 Mar 2025 10:00</p>
<h1>mediaman</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The mediaman working group held a session to review the status of active drafts and address several GitHub issues and pull requests for the media types registry. Key accomplishments included merging three pull requests for standard tree additions, top-level media types, and registry cleanup. The group also discussed procedural issues around media type registration conflicts between organizations, RTP payload format identification in the registry, and the need to clean up incomplete registration templates.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Draft Status Updates</strong>: The draft-ietf-mediaman-toplevel document has been approved by all authors and is expected to be published as RFC shortly, which will also free up the top-level draft that has been waiting as a normative reference.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>GitHub Pull Request Reviews</strong>: Four pull requests were reviewed and three were merged:</p>
<ul>
<li>Adding standard tree content (merged)</li>
<li>Adding top-level structural content (merged)</li>
<li>Registry cleanup for additional information (merged)</li>
<li>Structural suffixes pull request held for further review due to open issues</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Early Registration Procedure Discussion</strong>: Significant discussion around a situation where a W3C working group was able to register media types before an IETF working group, leading to frustration about process clarity. The group clarified that RFC 7120 early allocation procedures could have been used but weren't properly communicated or applied.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>RTP Payload Format Identification</strong>: Magnus Westlund requested adding explicit indicators in the media type registry to identify which registrations are RTP payload formats, either through a new registry column or template field, since the separate RTP payload format registry is being closed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Incomplete Registration Templates</strong>: Rahul identified numerous media types with missing, empty, or incomplete registration templates that need cleanup and completion.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Merged Pull Requests</strong>: Three pull requests were approved and merged during the meeting</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>New Issues to be Filed</strong>: Several new GitHub issues will be created:</p>
<ul>
<li>Early registration procedure clarification</li>
<li>Standards organization maturity requirements</li>
<li>Mobile operating system type identifiers for registry cleanup</li>
<li>Instructions for external standards organizations on maintaining registrations</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Volunteer Needed</strong>: Alexey requested 1-2 volunteers to help complete incomplete registration templates for existing media types</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>RTP Payload Format Enhancement</strong>: Agreement to add RTP payload format identification to registration template and potentially registry display, with Magnus to create a proposal</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Alexey will work with volunteers (when identified) to create a draft completing incomplete media type registrations</li>
<li>Magnus will create a proposal for RTP payload format identification in the registry</li>
<li>Multiple new GitHub issues will be filed to track procedural improvements</li>
<li>General registration update procedures will be coordinated with the IANABIS working group</li>
<li>Media type specific guidance will be added to RFC 6838bis</li>
<li>The working group will transition to new Area Director Andy after IETF 122</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
