<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="mimi.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-MIMI-20250319-0230">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 19 Mar 2025 02:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># mimi

## Summary

The mimi working group meeting at IETF 122 covered several key topics including adopting the discovery requirements document, updates on the Mimi architecture and protocol, minimization of metadata, content format, room policy, identity and a discussion of MLS subgroups. The meeting involved technical discussions, proposed solutions, and identified action items for further development and consideration.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Adoption of Discovery Requirements Document:** The working group adopted draft-interop-mimi-discovery-requirements-02.
*   **Mimi Architecture:** Richard Barnes provided an update emphasizing no changes to the core architecture. The architecture is a client-to-server-to-server-to-client model focused on inter-provider interoperability.
*   **Mimi Protocol Updates:** Rowan covered changes since the last IETF, including franking, improvements to the internal search mechanism, pseudonyms for minimal metadata rooms, a participant list component, and a room metadata component.
*   **Download Proxy:** A major discussion point was the download proxy for attachments, involving oblivious HTTP (OHDP) and attachment policies. Different proposals were made regarding OHDP implementation.
*   **Metadata Minimization:** Raphael Robert discussed pseudonymous credentials and their impact on metadata minimization, highlighting requirements for connections and synchronization of key material.
*   **Content Format:** Rowan presented content updates, including the new message ID construction, timestamp handling, and URI usage. Proposals were made to potentially remove features like smart timestamps and polls in favor of extensions.
*   **Room Policy:** Updates on room policy moved roles, capabilities and pre-authorized users from prior drafts into room policy.
*   **Mimi Identity:** Concerns were raised about different credential types and what actions clients need to be able to take to operate in mixed credential type environments.
*   **MLS Subgroups:** Brendan Macmillian presented a draft on MLS subgroups, aiming to improve privacy and efficiency by consolidating devices under a single user into a subgroup. The discussion focused on wire format changes and its impact on interop.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Adopted:** Draft-interop-mimi-discovery-requirements-02 was adopted as a working group document.
*   **Download Proxy:** Requirements need to be settled.
*   **Knox:**  Need a concrete proposal.
*   **Issues 25 &amp; 26:** Close as &quot;won't fix&quot;.
*   **Timestamps Integrity:** To be discussed on the mailing list.
*   **Arbitrary State:** Satisified by MLS App Data Update and Dictionary Extensions.
*   **Proposed Won't Fix:** &quot;Smart Time Stamps&quot; and other features.
*   **Mimi Identity:** To be revisited and possibly re-worked.
*   **MLS Subgroups:** Brendan to cross-post the MLS adoption call information to Mimi list.
*   **Chairs:** Discuss the MLS subgroups with Art AD and other relevant chairs.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to transition the discovery requirements document into the working group repository.
*   Continue discussions on the mailing list and GitHub, particularly regarding download proxy, metadata minimization, content format, and MLS subgroups.
*   Develop concrete proposals for features such as Knox if deemed necessary.
*   Investigate options for testing the Mimi Content specification for interoperability.
*   Discuss the download proxy and MLS subgroups further on the mailing list.
*   Chairs to coordinate with the MLS working group.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
