<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="moq.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-MOQ-20250317-1000">Recording 1</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-MOQ-20250320-1000">Recording 2</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 17 Mar 2025 10:00</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># moq

## Summary

This session of the moq working group covered updates to the moq-transport draft, a proposal for adding a publish method and related extensions, and a presentation on moq Q-Log. The key discussion revolved around the publish proposal, wildcard subscriptions, and the need for buffering in implementations.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **moq-transport draft updates:** Ian summarized the changes since IETF-121, focusing on the reorganization of messages and clarification of existing mechanisms.
*   **Publish proposal:** Ian presented a proposal to add a `publish` method, analogous to `subscribe` but initiated by the publisher. This aims to improve video conferencing and video ingestion use cases.
*   **Track Identifier Management:** A related proposal was to replace track alias with a publisher ID and track identifier to improve ambiguity and enable either peer to initiate a subscription.
*   **Wildcard Subscriptions:** Ian described a proposal to allow subscribing to all active tracks in a namespace, which builds upon long-standing feature requests.
*   **Buffering:** The need for buffering at the subscriber was discussed in the context of potential reordering of messages and loss. This led to a debate on whether to require buffering or to introduce an alias acknowledgment mechanism (`alias ACK`).
*   **Relay Behavior:** Colin presented slides detailing how these proposals could impact relay behavior in various scenarios.  The state maintained by relays was discussed.
*   **Q-Log:** Lucas presented on the use of Q-Log for moq, showing the creation of a moq-specific schema and example tooling.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Publish and Track ID Proposal (Ian &amp; Colin):** The working group agreed (with some skepticism) that Ian and Colin should create a PR for the publish method, track ID changes, and a separate PR for wildcard subscriptions.
*   **Address Relay Behavior:** Text should be written from the perspective of what state is maintained at the relays regarding the new proposals.
*   **Announce Track Issue:** Confirm an existing open issue or create one if it does not yet exist to address Announce Track (per Victor).
*   **Alias ACK (Alan):** Alan will defer writing a PR for the alias ACK mechanism, pending further evaluation of the publish proposal.
*   **Moq Q-Log:**  Interested parties should examine the draft to potentially adopt at a future meeting.

## Next Steps

*   Ian and Colin will develop PRs for the publish method, track ID changes, and wildcard subscriptions.
*   The working group will review and provide feedback on these PRs.
*   The working group will further discuss and potentially adopt a Q-Log schema for moq.


---

**Session Date/Time:** 20 Mar 2025 10:00

```markdown
# moq Meeting - IETF 119

## Summary

This moq working group meeting covered several important topics, including an interop report, updates on the loch draft, and a proposal for authentication and access control for moq transport. The group also formally confirmed the date and location for the upcoming hybrid interim in Stockholm. An adoption call for the loch draft was conducted, and there was a discussion about metadata location within the loch format.  The group discussed a proposal for Authentication and Access Control with many approaches discussed. Finally, Alan Steer announced his decision to step down as chair and become a co-editor of the moq draft.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Interop Report:** Successful interop testing with multiple implementations, including new media-based demonstrations. Qlog extension being used for debugging.
*   **Upcoming Interims:** Formal confirmation of hybrid interim in Stockholm, May 5-7.
*   **loch Draft Update (Mo):**
    *   Resolved issues related to video formats in the WebCodecs registry.
    *   Recommendations for parameter sets and prefixes.
    *   Discussion regarding an existing bug in WebCodecs.
    *   Discussion around metadata location with differing views.
*   **Authentication and Access Control (Will):**
    *   Presentation of a draft proposing token authentication using CTA's Common Access Token (CAT).
    *   Discussion of different approaches including composite claims.
    *   Considerations for token revocation and renewal mechanisms.
*   **Chair Transition:** Alan Steer stepping down as chair and becoming a moq draft co-editor.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **loch Draft Adoption:** The group showed support for adopting the loch draft with 21 in favor and 0 opposed, pending list confirmation.
*   **loch Metadata Location:**  The group did not reach consensus on metadata location.
    *   **Action Item:** Mo to create an issue on the security considerations, on the privacy considerations related to relays.
*   **loch Draft Updates:**
    *   **Action Item:** Mo to upload an IETF version of the loch draft, removing the catalog and moving it to warp once the adoption call concludes.
    *   **Action Item:** Mo to move the loch draft to the moq working group GitHub repository after adoption.
*   **Authentication and Access Control:** No decision made. Continue discussion on the open issue.
    *   **Action Item:** Will to encourage issue openers to continue discussion on this topic.
    *   **Action Item:** Open an issue against moq regarding linking to one type of auth.

## Next Steps

*   Conclude adoption call for the loch draft on the mailing list.
*   Address open issues and prepare the loch draft for publication.
*   Continue discussions regarding authentication and access control on the mailing list and in future meetings.
*   Prepare for the hybrid interim in Stockholm.
*   Address PR on binary array for the oath field.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
