<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="ntp.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-NTP-20250318-0830">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 18 Mar 2025 08:30</p>
<h1>NTP Session</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This meeting covered the status of several NTP-related documents, including updates on RFC 9748, documents in the RFC editor queue, and drafts under development. Key discussion points included NTPV5, Rough Time, NTS for PTP, 1588 updates, and leap second discussions.  Plans for a virtual interim meeting in April and a hackathon in July were announced.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>RFC Status:</strong>  RFC 9748 (update registries document) has been published.  Two documents (interleave modes, PTP enterprise profile) are in the RFC editor queue. The NTP over PTP draft has a shepherd write-up pending.</li>
<li><strong>NTPV5 Requirements Document:</strong>  The document has expired and needs updates and re-uploading to Datatracker.  A call for a new editor was made. The IESG will decide whether to publish.</li>
<li><strong>NTPV5 Protocol Specification:</strong> Miroslav is unable to attend. The document needs more review, especially regarding the reference IDs based on the bloom filter. David Rule has offered suggestions for improvement.</li>
<li><strong>NTPV5 Timestamp Extensions:</strong> Discussion around the timestamp extension fields in NTPV5, with emphasis on separation of protocol and algorithms for time synchronization. It's not the intention to be prescriptive with how the clock is steered.</li>
<li><strong>Rough Time:</strong>  The specification has been changed to experimental from standards track. A working group last call will be initiated.</li>
<li><strong>NTS for PTP:</strong>  A new version (01) was uploaded with improvements, including replay protection mechanisms. Security considerations are still missing. A reference implementation is under development. Questions were raised about the table of Mac algorithms.</li>
<li><strong>NTS for NTP Pools:</strong>  Work is ongoing, but details are limited due to ongoing implementation efforts.</li>
<li><strong>I31588 Update:</strong> A roll-up revision is required. The security subcommittee is working on a draft PAR for enhanced security, including fixes to the authentication TLV and NTS for PTP extensions. The 1588.1 (client-server PTP) is being discussed.</li>
<li><strong>ITU Leap Seconds:</strong> The ITU is considering changes to leap seconds. A statement from the IETF is desired. Christoph is at the ITUR meeting and will provide an update. BIPM's recommendations are inputs to the ITUR decisions.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>NTPV5 Requirements Document:</strong> Recruit a new editor to update the document.</li>
<li><strong>NTPV5 Protocol Specification:</strong> Solicit additional reviews, especially on the bloom filter-based reference IDs.</li>
<li><strong>NTS for PTP:</strong> David will bring up the topic of shared Mac algorithm tables during the SAG meeting. Martin is asked to upload an NTS update prior to August.</li>
<li><strong>ITU Leap Seconds:</strong>  Contact Christoph for an update on the ITUR discussions and develop a brief statement on leap seconds.</li>
<li><strong>Hackathon:</strong> Plan to organize the hackathon at the IETF 123 Madrid event.</li>
<li><strong>Virtual Interim Meeting:</strong> Schedule the virtual interim meeting for April 22nd at 1600 UTC.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Send an email to the NTP mailing list for volunteers to help edit the NTPV5 requirements document.</li>
<li>David will post more details about his intended contributions for the hackathon on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Martin will provide updates regarding the NTS document.</li>
<li>Contact Christoph for details on ITU leap second discussions.</li>
<li>Organize the logistics for the virtual interim meeting on April 22nd.</li>
<li>Begin organizing the hackathon at IETF 123.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
