<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="opsawg.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-OPSAWG-20250317-0600">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 17 Mar 2025 06:00</p>
<h1>opsawg</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This meeting covered various topics related to network operations, including updates on existing drafts, discussions on new work, and reports from workshops. Key areas of focus included IPFIX enhancements, data collection manifests, discard reporting, and the challenges of using YANG models for network automation.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Guideline for Characterization OAM:</strong> A draft document on OAM is facing scope and content issues, leading to a discussion about whether to continue the work, reduce its scope, or revise it significantly.</li>
<li><strong>Prefix Length Draft:</strong> An update on the prefix length draft, designed to help services determine the size of IP address spaces used by customers. Security considerations were discussed, and the draft is nearing working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Export of Delay Performance:</strong> A document has progressed to IESG, with minor editorial changes incorporated.</li>
<li><strong>IPFIX and Alternate Marking:</strong> Discussion on new IPFIX information elements for alternate marking, with suggestions to better describe use cases and potentially merge the draft with a deployment document.</li>
<li><strong>GPRS Tunneling Protocol User Plane Information in IPFIX:</strong> Update on the GTP-U IPFIX draft, with discussions ongoing regarding extension header handling and packet length export.</li>
<li><strong>Data Manifest Draft:</strong> Focuses on usability of a data collection manifest with ongoing work for aligning with the Young Catalog. Questions raised regarding the overlap with other collection methods.</li>
<li><strong>Packet Discard Reporting:</strong> This draft seeks to provide an information model for reporting packet loss across control plane, interfaces, flows, and devices. Discussed information model vs data model with a suggestion to consolidate into a single draft.</li>
<li><strong>Export of Quick Information in IPFix:</strong> Discussion regarding the export of the UDP-based Quick Protocol in IPFix including long header vs short header use cases.</li>
<li><strong>Export of SRV6 Part Segment Identifier in IPFix:</strong> Addresses the segment list of SRV6 segments which can have overhead and duplication across policies.</li>
<li><strong>AnyMOPs Workshop Report:</strong> A summary of outcomes from the Anymops workshop, with key findings related to ease of use, fragmentation of the ecosystem, the challenges of transitioning between frameworks, protocol limitations, the scalability needed to support very large device networks, and better development and testing needed to foster interoperability between devices, even those from different vendors.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Guideline for Characterization OAM:</strong> Benoit will attend the IPPM working group meeting to gauge interest and find potential contributors.</li>
<li><strong>Prefix Length Draft:</strong> Authors to address pending comments from John and consider a security directorate review before working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Data Manifest Draft:</strong> Benoit and Joe to discuss potential collaboration with NMOP (Network Management Operations) to better integrate with existing data collection methods.</li>
<li><strong>Packet Discard Reporting:</strong> Authors to consider suggestions to consolidate the information model, data model, and IPFIX implementation into a single document.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Mailing list discussions to continue on open questions.</li>
<li>Authors to revise drafts based on feedback received.</li>
<li>Chairs to schedule working group last calls as appropriate.</li>
<li>Ongoing work for AnyMOPs Workshop including drafting the report.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
