<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="pce.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-PCE-20250317-1000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 17 Mar 2025 10:00</p>
<h1>pce</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The PC working group meeting in Bangkok covered various topics including area director changes, document status updates, liaisons with other SDOs, and presentations on several draft documents. Key areas of discussion included SR policy endpoint handling, inter-domain tunnel management, topology filtering, and LSP reporting extensions. Several action items and requests for review were identified.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Area Director Transition:</strong>  Thanks to John for his service as AD and a warm welcome to Ketan as the new AD.</li>
<li><strong>Document Status:</strong> Two new RFCs were published. Several documents are nearing working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>SR Policy Endpoint (Zafar Ali):</strong>  Discussion on suppressing duplicate node SIDs in SR policies.  Andrew Stone suggested considering PCC-initiated scenarios and alignment with Spring WG.</li>
<li><strong>PSEP Extension for Stateful Interdomain Tunnel (Olivier):</strong> Presentation on managing inter-domain paths with PC notification messages and SRv6 support.  Andrew Stone questioned operational aspects of the notification function. Naming discussion around &quot;stitching label&quot; and the need for broader reviews. Scalability concerns were raised regarding association groups.</li>
<li><strong>PCF Extensions for Topology Filter (John Scho):</strong> Presentation of a draft extending PC to filter topologies. Samuel raised concerns about optional fields within the IGP domain identifier TLV and Zafar questioned the relationship with existing constraints.</li>
<li><strong>Stateful PC Interop (Andrew):</strong>  Discussion on splitting the PC interop draft into an informational operational document and an RFC update document.  Goals of adoption were discussed.</li>
<li><strong>LSP Reporting Extensions in PSEP (Samuel Wu):</strong> New reporting extensions for path computation with requested bindings and more accurate path type definitions. There were specific questions on flag setting in explicit/loose path</li>
<li><strong>Path Computation Based on Precision Availability Metrics (Luis):</strong> Introduced a new metric object with the idea of having the precision metric can be independent at the time of calculating a path. Questions around link attribute behavior</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>SR Policy Endpoint:</strong> Authors to discuss document location (PC vs. Spring) with Bruno (Spring chair) and PC chairs, along with considering behavior of PCC-initiated aspects.</li>
<li><strong>PSEP Extension for Stateful Interdomain Tunnel:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Authors to start a mailing list thread on renaming &quot;stitching label&quot;.</li>
<li>Authors to add a scalability section discussing the use of association groups.</li>
<li>Boris and Oscar volunteered to review the document.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>PCF Extensions for Topology Filter:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Authors to add clarifications on optional filtering fields</li>
<li>Authors to clarify how the proposed extension works in combination with the exiting constraints.</li>
<li>Authors to clarify that IGP and T topology fields should not be used together.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Stateful PC Interop:</strong> Andrew will clean up and refresh the PC operational draft, with a discussion regarding PC overload. Get working group adoption of both documents</li>
<li><strong>LSP Reporting Extensions in PSEP</strong>
<ul>
<li>The comment regarding loose and strict path for explicit path has to be addressed</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Path Computation Based on Precision Availability Metrics:</strong> Luis to add more detail around path compute and behavior. Discussion to be continued on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>PIM Point to Multipoint Policy:</strong> Authors to go through and included INA assignments, with comments provided by Andrew.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Follow-up on action items and open questions on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Working group last call for selected drafts as they become ready.</li>
<li>Continue document reviews.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
