<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="radext.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-RADEXT-20250321-0600">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 21 Mar 2025 06:00</p>
<h1>radext</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The radext working group meeting covered several topics, including updates on existing drafts, discussions on congestion control mitigation, emergency services attributes for Wi-Fi, and a review of the recent radius workshop. The meeting also addressed the working group's future and the potential for rechartering.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Radius DTLS:</strong> The draft is nearing completion, with open issues being addressed. Key updates include using protocol error for unwanted packets and always requiring mutual authentication from the start. Consideration is being given to the limited number of TLS records and the need for re-keying in long-standing TLS connections.</li>
<li><strong>Congestion Control Mitigation:</strong> Discussed a new draft focusing on mitigating congestion and load issues by pushing countermeasures to the edge of the network. Proposed mechanisms include response delay and request blocking based on attributes. The discussion included whether the working group should focus on this specific problem or look for more general solutions and a potential rename of &quot;congestion control&quot;.</li>
<li><strong>Connect Info:</strong> Provided an update on the connect info draft. Feedback included aligning with existing implementations, addressing security considerations, and the use of complex data structures.</li>
<li><strong>Emergency Services Attributes for Wi-Fi:</strong> Presented a new document on radius attributes for emergency services, focusing on enabling prioritized access for emergency personnel in Wi-Fi networks. The discussion centered around the authorization structure and whether to use a private enterprise number for the attributes or request adoption by the working group.</li>
<li><strong>Radius Workshop Review:</strong> A review of the recent radius workshop was conducted, highlighting discussions on proxying issues, accounting accuracy, and implementation recommendations. Key takeaways include the need for positive signal (protocol error) in proxy chains and addressing interaction effects between supplicant retransmits and proxy failovers.</li>
<li><strong>Working Group Future:</strong> Discussed the future of the radext working group, including the need for new working items and potential rechartering.  The possibility of becoming a maintenance working group was suggested.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Radius DTLS:</strong> Start a working group last call once the IETF meeting ends (approximately in a week). Valerie and Margaret will coordinate.</li>
<li><strong>Deprecating Insecure Practices &amp; Reverse COA:</strong>  Alan to initiate working group last calls for these documents.</li>
<li><strong>Emergency Services Attributes for Wi-Fi:</strong> The authors will discuss the feedback on the private enterprise number option and working group adoption with the chairs.</li>
<li><strong>radext Charter:</strong> A message will be posted to the mailing list to formally propose the removal of the extended 8-bit identification item from the charter.</li>
<li><strong>New Working Items:</strong> Participants were encouraged to send proposals for new working items to the mailing list to help guide decisions about rechartering.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Initiate working group last calls for Radius DTLS, Deprecating Insecure Practices, and Reverse COA.</li>
<li>Discuss the future of the working group on the mailing list, including potential rechartering and new working items.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
