<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="rats.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-RATS-20250317-0600">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 17 Mar 2025 06:00</p>
<h1>rats</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This meeting covered several key topics related to Remote Attestation ProcedureS (RATS), including conceptual message wrappers (CMW), measured component manifests, concise reference integrity manifests (Corim), P-Kix key attestation, reference interaction models, evidence transformations, mud-based rats resource discovery, and eat attestation results.  The group discussed progress on existing drafts, open issues, extensibility, and potential for adoption or working group last call.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Conceptual Message Wrappers (CMW):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussion on the CMW claim and whether it's too coarse-grained for use with the IT (Information Token) framework. Lawrence suggested defining a series of claims in the format of the CMW for specific purposes and dropping the CMW claim from the draft.</li>
<li>Debate over the IDP CMW extension and its use in tunneling a CMW into X.509 certificates. Some participants suggested dropping the extension entirely due to privacy concerns and its open-ended nature.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Measured Component Manifest:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discussion on extensibility with the addition of a &quot;flex&quot; attribute, its size, and alternative designs involving JSON or CBOR. The question revolved around the size constraint and the potential for richer, more complex information in the extension area.</li>
<li>Adding security version numbers (SVNs) was discussed, and a decision was deferred to the GitHub issue tracker.</li>
<li>Compatibility with the Trusted Computing Group's canonical event log was raised.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Concise Reference Integrity Manifest (Corim):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Updates on progress and adoption across organizations and standards bodies. The request was made for wider reviews and ideally to proceed to a working group last call.</li>
<li>Discussion of mandatory to implement (MTI) vs. optional to implement (OTI) triples and the use of Corim in other contexts, such as bundling multiple profiles using CMWs.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>P-Kix Key Attestation:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Explanation of the problem domain: assertions about protection properties of application keys for hardware and software operating within PKI applications.</li>
<li>Introduction of the &quot;presenter&quot; role, distinct from the existing RATS architecture. Usama highlighted some terminology inconsistencies.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Reference Interaction Models:</strong> Soliciting the working group to move to a working group last call</li>
<li><strong>Yang Module for Remote Attestation Evidence Conveyance and Network Subscription</strong> moving to working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Evidence Transformations:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Explanation of transforming existing evidence formats, like SPDM, into a consistent internal representation. Thomas raised the question on the scope of which evidence formats to consider.</li>
<li>Adoption consideration with broad industry interest being expressed.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Mud-Based RATS Resource Discovery:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discovery of attestation resources through MADs (Manufacturer Usage Description).</li>
<li>Exploring the feasibility of eat being a MAD file.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Eat Attestation Results:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Presenting the EAT profile for Attestation Results (EAR) based on R4C (Result Format for Claims). Michael (Richards) expressed the need for adoption.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>CMW:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Decide on the open issues on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Start a second working group last call when ready.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Measured Component Manifest:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Sort out extensibility based on the feedback from Hank and Karsten.</li>
<li>Decide on the SVN topic and proceed to working group last call.</li>
<li>Monty volunteered to compare the design of this to the TCG canonical event log and to report back.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Corim:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Michael and Monty committed to reviewing the document by April 15th.</li>
<li>Initiate working group last call after these reviews.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>P-Kix Key Attestation:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Mike to continue developing the draft with collaboration with Kathleen.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Reference Interaction Models:</strong> Initiating working group last call following review.</li>
<li><strong>Yang Module for Remote Attestation Evidence Conveyance and Network Subscription:</strong> Initiating two week working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Evidence Transformations:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Adopt the draft.</li>
<li>Hank and Steve Seffert, David Sefford and Mimi will participate if focus goes to TPM-based solutions.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Mud-Based RATS Resource Discovery:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussion of where this work can be done on the mailing list. Author to progress to a 0-1 version based on WG direction from list.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Eat Attestation Results:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Adopt the eardraft.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Address open issues for CMW on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Address the extension attributes for Measured Components draft.</li>
<li>Reviews of Corim to be completed by April 15th.</li>
<li>Continue design work for P-Kix Key Attestation and clarify the role of the presenter.</li>
<li>Progress the working group last calls for the identified drafts.</li>
<li>Continue discussion on the mailing list for Mud-Based Resource Discovery.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
