<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="regext.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-REGEXT-20250318-0830">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 18 Mar 2025 08:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># regext

## Summary

The regext working group meeting covered several key areas, including updates on existing documents, new work presentations on efficient ARDAP referrals and secure authcodes (OSCOSEC), and a discussion regarding a proposed charter change. The group discussed challenges related to ARDAP performance and domain transfer security, and sought feedback on potential solutions.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **RFC Status Updates:** Discussion of RFC editor queue and documents in IESG process, including the EPP mapping for DNS time-to-live values.
*   **RAP RAR Search:** The best practice for delete is waiting for area director follow-up.
*   **Tom Harrison's Updates on RAR search:** Discussion on generic link relations, status filtering, trailing domain label wildcard search, and IPv6 considerations. Agreement to add IPv6 examples.
*   **Versioning in ARDAP:** Updates on the 03 draft, including addressing the use of bear extension identifiers and considering semantic versioning.
*   **ARE Exchanges with Extensions Media Type:** Discussion on Pavel's measurements regarding the interpretation of parameters on the current media type.
*   **ARDAP Extensions:** Discussion on simplifying the draft, specifically regarding bear identifiers. The group seeks input on simplifying the document.
*   **JS Contact in Ardap:** The document was updated to avoid better extension identifiers.
*   **Other exchanges for AR PGI registration data:** Draft presented to Cedar Ops Working Group and was well received.
*   **EPP over ACTPS and EPP over Quick:** Updates including working group document status, Gavin Brown and Zade Albana as document shepherds, and a request for reviewers.
*   **Efficient ARDAP Referrals (Gavin Brown):** Presentation on a proposal using HEAD requests to improve ARDAP referral efficiency by reducing wasted bandwidth and CPU, particularly in scenarios with low cache hit rates. Strong support for the work was expressed.
*   **OSCOSEC (Victor Kosek):** Presentation on securing domain transfers using cryptography with OSCOSEC in a backward-compatible manner. Focusing on registrant signing. The group discussed public key distribution and potential issues with DNSSEC.
*   **Charter Change Proposal:** Discussion of proposed charter changes to explicitly include protocol extensions for transporting EPP and ARDAP, aiming to clarify the working group's scope and address the eligibility of work such as EPP over HTTP and EPP over Quick.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Tom Harrison (RAR search):** Add IPv6 examples to the document.
*   **Mario (JS Contact in Ardap):** Submit the experiment and the definition of success of the experiment to add to the document.
*   **Gavin Brown (Efficient ARDAP Referrals):** Proceed with development.
*   **Victor Kosek (OSCOSEC):** Consider proposed revisions and consider other options for key distribution for OSCOSEC.
*   **Chairs:** Post the charter change proposal on the mailing list for discussion.
*   **Andy:** Post suggested alternative wording for the charter change on the mailing list.
*   **Authors:** Request an interim meeting.
## Next Steps

*   **Charter Change:** The proposed charter change will be discussed on the mailing list to gather feedback and reach consensus.
*   **Interim Meeting:** Chairs need to be notified of a desire for an interim meeting for the other extension draft proposals.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
