<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="satp.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-SATP-20250319-0600">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 19 Mar 2025 06:00</p>
<h1>satp</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The SATP working group meeting covered progress on existing drafts, feedback from the chair's review, re-chartering goals, a stage zero discussion led by Thomas, a SAPP implementation guide proposal from Hau Housin Song, and potential next steps. The main topics included encoding formats, acceptable values, asset ID, network requirements, gateway requirements, metadata sharing, data sharing, rechartering goals, and implementation guides.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Document Readiness:</strong> The core documents have improved significantly, but issues remain regarding encoding formats and lists of acceptable values.</li>
<li><strong>Encoding Formats:</strong> There needs to be explicit definition of encoding for all fields, especially regarding public keys (e.g., base64, hex, DER encoded certificate).</li>
<li><strong>Acceptable Values:</strong> Agreement is needed on acceptable values for fields with limited options (e.g., network lock type). Options include listing values in the document, referencing external lists (RFCs), or creating an IANA registry table.</li>
<li><strong>IANA Registry Table:</strong> Should be used if multiple standards or documents might need to add entries to a list of values.</li>
<li><strong>Re-chartering Goals:</strong> Brainstorming session to identify topics for the re-charter, including stage zero negotiation, bill of lading support, bidirectional transfers, data sharing, metadata attachment, asset ID definition, and network identification.</li>
<li><strong>AD Considerations:</strong> The AD emphasized the need for multiple independent implementations and interoperability when selecting re-charter items. Focus should be on scenarios requiring interoperability, not internal descriptions within a single software boundary.</li>
<li><strong>Asset ID:</strong> A discussion on what an asset ID is, especially if it's a tokenized asset and if it has its own unique ID.  Need for defining what an asset ID looks like and where it comes from. Also a discussion about standardizing the structure of SIDID.</li>
<li><strong>Network Identification:</strong>  The need for an encoded way for code to process it outside the network</li>
<li><strong>Implementation Guide:</strong> A proposal for an implementation guide was presented. This would contain guidelines and best practices for implementing the SATP protocol.</li>
<li><strong>Gateway vs Network Requirements:</strong> Discussed whether minimum requirements should be placed on the network or the gateway.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Authors:</strong> Address encoding format issues and list of acceptable values issues in the core document, taking into account the feedback from the chair's review.</li>
<li><strong>Chairs:</strong> Post the brainstormed list of re-chartering items to the mailing list for further discussion and prioritization.</li>
<li><strong>Authors:</strong> Provide sentence descriptions for each re-chartering item.</li>
<li><strong>Chairs and Authors:</strong> Discuss whether an interim meeting should be scheduled before the meeting in Madrid.</li>
<li><strong>Chairs:</strong> Talk and sort of divvy up the shepherd work between Peter and Howshen.</li>
<li><strong>Clara and Wes:</strong> Figure out what to do with the list of 14 items to potentially consider.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>The chair will bring the list of proposed re-chartering items to the mailing list for further discussion and prioritization.</li>
<li>Authors should work on resolving the issues raised during the chair review for the existing drafts.</li>
<li>Authors should provide sentence descriptions for each re-chartering item on the list.</li>
<li>The SAPP implementation guide proposal will be considered as a potential focus area.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
