<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="scim.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-SCIM-20250319-0830">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 19 Mar 2025 08:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># scim

## Summary

The SCIM working group meeting covered several key topics, including updates on cursor pagination, the use cases draft, and the OpenID Foundation's IPSI working group and its potential impact on SCIM.  There was a call for reviewers for the use cases draft.  Octa has implemented and found issues with the Roles and Entitlements draft, and is willing to help update it. The IPSI working group is aiming to create profiles of existing standards to improve interoperability and security, with a focus on enterprise use cases.  The SCIM working group discussed how the IPSI working group should focus on profiling rather than creating new extensions, and ways to collaborate.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Cursor Pagination:**  The esteemed ID is moving forward with cursor pagination and incorporating feedback.
*   **Use Cases Draft:** Paolo Correira provided an update on the SCIM use cases draft.  The goal is to establish common terminology and illustrate generic and specific use cases.  More reviews are needed.
*   **Roles and Entitlements Draft:** Aaron Parecki provided an update on the Roles and Entitlements draft, noting Octa's implementation experience and identified needed tweaks. Octa is willing to update the draft.
*   **OpenID Foundation IPSI Working Group:** Aaron Parecki discussed the IPSI working group's goals to improve interoperability and security in enterprise identity.  The group aims to profile existing specifications rather than creating new ones. There's overlap with SCIM, particularly in identity lifecycle management. Collaboration between the SCIM working group and IPSI is essential. The target is to have a draft done before September 2025 for interoperability demonstrations at the Gartner IAM Summit.
*   **Enterprise Definition:**  The definition of enterprise was clarified, with the main point being control of overall application usage from a single control point.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Use Cases Draft:** More reviewers are needed. Dean and Anjali volunteered.
*   **Roles and Entitlements Draft:** Octa will update the draft, create a new revision, post it to the mailing list, and solicit feedback. Danny will add Octa folks as authors.
*   **IPSI Collaboration:**
    *   The IPSI working group will focus on profiling SCIM rather than creating new extensions.
    *   Dean will post updates and questions from the IPSI working group to the SCIM mailing list.
    *   The SCIM mailing list will be used to share IPSI documents.
    *   Consider hosting a joint side meeting or IETF skim in interim to get direct live review from Ipsi participants.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to update the use cases draft based on feedback.
*   Octa to update the Roles and Entitlements draft and solicit feedback.
*   Dean to share IPSI updates and questions with the SCIM mailing list.
*   SCIM WG participants encouraged to join and contribute to the IPSI working group.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
