<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="teas.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-TEAS-20250320-0800">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 20 Mar 2025 08:00</p>
<h1>teas</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The TEAS working group met at IETF 122 to discuss the status of existing working group documents and to hear presentations on new and ongoing work. Topics included scalability considerations for NRPs, ACTN for service assurance, a topology model for network source partitioning, OAM for network source partitioning segment routing, bandwidth updates for SDPTE, and multi-path traffic engineering.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>NRP Scalability:</strong> Discussion revolved around the scalability of NRPs, particularly the number of NRPs expected in a network. Concerns were raised about the draft asserting sizes in the thousands, with some arguing that tens would be more realistic. The relationship between this draft and the NSIP MPLS document was also discussed.</li>
<li><strong>ACTN for Service Assurance:</strong> An update was given on the POI service assurance draft, covering fault and performance management in multi-layer, multi-domain networks. The group discussed how to handle performance information exchange between domains and a gap analysis of existing YANG models relevant to service assurance. There was support for the draft to be adopted.</li>
<li><strong>Network Resource Partitioning:</strong> A presentation was made on draft relating to a topology model for network and compute resources. Questions were raised about tying this model into network resources and the requirements of applications from the network, and whether it would fit in the current TEAS architecture.</li>
<li><strong>OAM for Network Source Partitioning SR:</strong> A presentation covered OAM tools for monitoring NRP resources and detecting faults. The benefits of using BFD or STAMP for troubleshooting NRP selectors was questioned, and there were concerns that this could be used as an attack vector.</li>
<li><strong>Bandwidth Updates for SDPTE:</strong> The draft on in-place bandwidth updates for LSPs was discussed, focusing on reducing churn in the network. The working group questioned whether new error codes should be created.</li>
<li><strong>Multi-Path Traffic Engineering:</strong> A presentation outlined a new approach to traffic engineering that uses multi-path traffic engineering to generalize ECMP and allow unequal weighting of paths.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>NRP Scalability:</strong> Authors will update the draft to address concerns about the scale of NRPs.</li>
<li><strong>ACTN for Service Assurance:</strong> Chairs will initiate the process to adopt the ACTN POI service assurance draft.</li>
<li><strong>Network Resource Partitioning:</strong> Authors will look at adding an attachment point to the model, and the draft will be discussed offline.</li>
<li><strong>OAM for Network Source Partitioning SR:</strong> Discussions to be continued on the mailing list to understand how the code can be best applied.</li>
<li><strong>Bandwidth Updates for SDPTE:</strong> Further discussion required on the mailing list, to address if a new code is needed.</li>
<li><strong>ITUT Liaison:</strong> The working group will coordinate to create an answer to ITUT for 5G and beyond progress. The lead should be chosen.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to address comments on their drafts and prepare updated versions for the next IETF meeting.</li>
<li>Working group to continue discussions on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Chairs to work with authors to progress documents towards last call and publication.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
