<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="v6ops.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF122-V6OPS-20250319-0600">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 19 Mar 2025 06:00</p>
<h1>v6ops</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The v6ops meeting covered several working group drafts and individual drafts. Key topics included CLAT source address selection, a framework for multi-homed IPv6-only networks, replacing DNS64 with RA-based prefix discovery, mitigating IPv6 NAT64 trace route issues, and improving IPv6 support for multi-interface/multi-router scenarios. There were also discussions around the use of LLMs to answer IPv6 questions, IPv6 deployment monitoring and analysis.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>IETF Process:</strong> A reminder of the IETF process, policies, patent disclosure requirements, and expected respectful conduct.</li>
<li><strong>Working Group Status:</strong> Concerns about declining attendance and milestones being slightly behind schedule. The need for more input and real-world experience on v6 mostly deployments was highlighted.</li>
<li><strong>LLM for IPv6:</strong> Presentation on using LLMs to answer factual IPv6 questions with high accuracy. Concerns were raised regarding LLM's &quot;creativity&quot; potentially straining resources.</li>
<li><strong>CLAT (draft-ietf-v6ops-464xlat-clat):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Clarification on CLAT source address treatment and duplicate address detection.</li>
<li>Discussion on multi-homing scenarios and guidelines for avoiding multiple CLAT instances.</li>
<li>Debate regarding the practicality of implementing complex features like source address selection.</li>
<li>Consideration of environments with only a single /128 address and whether to support them or reference BCP 7934 which recommends against giving general purpose hosts a single /128.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Framework for Multi-homed IPv6-only Networks (draft-zhang-v6ops-ipv6-only-framework):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Presentation of a framework for building scalable IPv6-only backbone networks with IPv4 service support.</li>
<li>Concern raised about overhead to routers specifically around 64 bit vs 128 bit lookup key.</li>
<li>Discussion about how the P router can figure out how to send the packet to the next hop.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Deprecating DNS64 (draft-ietf-v6ops-dns64-prefix):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Problems with RFC 7050 (DNS64) and potential improvements/alternatives.</li>
<li>Recommendation to prioritize RA-based NAT64 prefix discovery (PREF64) over DNS64.</li>
<li>Concern raised regarding mobile network operator adoption of PREF64.</li>
<li>Discussion about where this draft should go, including the recommendation to talk about it in the 6man working group.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Mitigating IPv6 NAT64 Trace Route Issues (draft-ietf-v6ops-nat64-traceroute):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Definition of how to translate untranslatable IPV6 addresses by using a IANA allocated IPv4 dummy address.</li>
<li>Discussion of how to preserve the original V6 addresses and suggesting that we obsolete a previous work on this topic and proceed with this one.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Improving IPv6 Support for Multi-Interface/Multi-Router Scenarios (draft-gont-v6ops-ipv6-multihoming):</strong>
<ul>
<li>Problem statement for improving IPv6 support in scenarios with multiple routers, interfaces, and prefixes.</li>
<li>Proposed scenarios and recommendations for host-side improvements to address common failures.</li>
<li>Discussion about prior work (RFC 7556, RFC 8801, Shim6).</li>
<li>Clarifications on what's new.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>IPv6 Network Deployment Monitoring and Analysis Advancements:</strong>
<ul>
<li>System to drive the growth of IPV6 traffic including highlighting technical gaps in IPv6 before to IPV6 transition.</li>
<li>Newly defined a complete set of key performance indicators including readiness indicators and operational metrics and quality metrics.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>CLAT:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The authors to add a section referencing BCP 7934, recommending against single /128 address assignments.</li>
<li>The authors to solicit complexity concerns on the mailing list and include explanation in the draft.</li>
<li>Clarify that the recommendation and modification of the 6877 about the dedicated source prefix is on the host only.</li>
<li>The document is going to proposed standard.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Framework for Multi-homed IPv6-only Networks:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Authors to check mail and specify how the P router can figure out where to send the package to the next hop.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Deprecating DNS64:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Discuss further within 6man about host requirements to implement pre-6-4 since this draft suggests a change in behavior of 87 implementation.</li>
<li>Authors to add use case where you can use 70 50 without the ns 64 (e.g. synthesizing the code A only for IPV4 only that rpa).</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Mitigating IPv6 NAT64 Trace Route Issues</strong>
<ul>
<li>Chairs to follow up about adoption</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Improving IPv6 Support for Multi-Interface/Multi-Router Scenarios:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The authors to reference RFC 7556, RFC 8801, Shim6 to acknowledge prior work.</li>
<li>Author to emphasize what's new.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussion on the mailing lists for all drafts.</li>
<li>Authors to revise their drafts based on the feedback received during the meeting.</li>
<li>Working group chairs to consider adoption calls for appropriate drafts.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
