**Session Date/Time:** 21 Mar 2025 08:00

# vcon

## Summary
The vcon working group meeting focused on the VCon data format, its extensions, and document organization. Key discussions included restructuring the core document, handling separate recordings per party, the "appended" concept for VCons, versioning, and the scope and adoption of the privacy primer document. The group also discussed adopting the instant messaging extension draft. Finally, the working group had a discussion on how the documents can be structured better.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Document Restructuring:** Splitting the VCon container draft into smaller pieces: a core VCon definition, contact center-specific extension, and a separate document for use cases.
*   **Recordings Per Party:**  Addressing scenarios with separate recordings per party in a call. The consensus was to allow multiple dialogue objects, one per recording, rather than modifying the body/URL to be an array.
*   **Appended VCons:**  Discussed the "appended" concept where new data is added to a VCon without modifying the original (e.g., signed) VCon.  Two options were considered: incremental data with a reference to the original vs. a deep copy of the original plus incremental data.
*   **Versioning:**  Debated the naming of the version parameter (currently "VCon") and the use of semantic versioning. Concerns were raised about versioning JSON documents in general and potential incompatibilities.
*   **V-Con URI scheme:** Request to register a V-Con URI scheme to identify a V-Con by it's ID when used outsite of the V-Con construct.
*   **Media Type:** Discussion regarding registering "application/vcon+json" vs. separate media types for signed/encrypted VCons. The decision was to proceed with only registering "application/vcon" and "application/vcon+gzip".
*   **Privacy Primer:**  Discussed the scope and potential adoption of the privacy primer document. Some concerns were raised about whether the document's scope was too broad for the working group and suggestions that sector should review it.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Recordings Per Party:**  Adopt the multiple dialogue objects approach for handling separate recordings per party. (Action: Update documentation).
*   **Appended VCons:**  Further discussion needed on the "appended" concept. (Action: Write up use cases, discuss on mailing list).
*   **Versioning:** More discussion needed for how to version V-Cons.
*   **Privacy Primer:**  Adopt the privacy primer as an informational document (Action: Move forward with adoption on the mailing list). Send to sector for review.
*   **Instant Messaging Extension:** Adopt the instant messaging extension draft.

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussion on appended VCons and document restructuring on the mailing list.
*   Dan Petrie to finish remaining mechanical tasks in the VCon core document.
*   Update milestones to reflect current document plans.
*   Explore if there are volunteers to write an eCrit use case with extension proposal.
