<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="6lo.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-6LO-20230725-2000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 25 Jul 2023 20:00</p>
<h1>6lo</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The 6lo working group meeting covered a range of topics related to IPv6 over low-power wireless networks. Discussions included updates on existing drafts, presentations on new drafts related to address allocation, prefix registration, and the use of short-range optical wireless communication.  Several important discussions revolved around the scope and applicability of the documents, and potential overlaps with other working group efforts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Transmission of SHiC Compressed Packets:</strong>  Discussion on the three different route-over approaches (straightforward, tunnel-based, pointer-based) and whether to keep all three. Decision to keep all three given their complementary nature and applicability to different deployments. Also discussed whether the document should be 15.4 specific or generic.  Current plan is to keep it 15.4 specific.</li>
<li><strong>Path-Aware Semantic Addressing (PASA):</strong> Updates on addressing conflicts and privacy considerations.  Proposed using 6LoWPAN capability indication option instead of the P bit in the ERO option to signal PASA capability.</li>
<li><strong>Generic Address Assignment Option:</strong>  Presentation of a new option for requesting address allocation to simplify the registration process. Feedback suggested decoupling it from ERO.</li>
<li><strong>IPv6 ND Prefix Registration:</strong> Discussion about the use of the &quot;f&quot; bit and whether the document should be split. Concerns were raised about the complexity and potential confusion of including source-based prefix registration.</li>
<li><strong>Architecture Framework for IPv6 over Non-Broadcast Access:</strong> Discussion about architectural changes and a proposed BAF. Concerns raised about changing assumptions about L2/L3 interfaces.  Question of scope (is this more than maintenance?) and whether 6man is the correct venue.</li>
<li><strong>Transmission of IPv6 Packets over Short-Range Optical Wireless Communication (OWC):</strong> Presentation of a new draft exploring IPv6 over OWC, highlighting challenges related to topology, addressing, and MTU.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Transmission of SHiC Compressed Packets:</strong> Keep all three route-over approaches in the draft. Continue with the current scope as a 15.4 specific document.</li>
<li><strong>IPv6 ND Prefix Registration:</strong> To discuss the use of the &quot;f&quot; bit and its implications further on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Architecture Framework for IPv6 over Non-Broadcast Access:</strong> Eric Vyncke to talk with Bob Hinden about whether 6man is the best venue for this draft or if the WG should pursue a BAF.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing lists for the various drafts presented.</li>
<li>Pascal to discuss document organization and applicability with Bob Hinden.</li>
<li>Authors to revise drafts based on feedback received.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
