<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="alto.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-ALTO-20230727-2230">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 27 Jul 2023 22:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># ALTO Session - IETF 117

## Summary
The ALTO session at IETF 117 focused on the status of existing documents, potential joint work with the CATS working group on compute metrics, and proposals for the future direction of the ALTO working group. Three rechartering proposals were presented, each addressing different aspects of ALTO deployment and data source integration. A key point of discussion revolved around the scope of ALTO and whether it should extend to standardizing southbound APIs for data collection.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **OEM and New Transport Documents:** Status update on the OEM and new transport documents.  Resolved minor outstanding issues. Decision to keep RFC 8895 (SSC) but not obsolete it, pending further discussion with implementers Danny and Ingema.
*   **CATS Collaboration:** Adrian Farrell (CATS co-chair) presented on the potential for collaboration between ALTO and CATS, particularly regarding the standardization of compute metrics. A joint interim meeting was suggested to explore this further.
*   **Rechartering Proposals:** Three rechartering proposals were presented:
    *   **Focus on maintenance and integration complexity:** Addressing integration with various data sources.
    *   **Make ALTO dominant:** Expanding ALTO's influence.
    *   **Focus on Southbound Implementation:** Evaluate, guide and propose solutions to the AUTO source bug implementation and deep pond barriers
    *   **BGP Communities Integration:**  Extending ALTO to handle BGP communities for network map and cost map generation.
    *   **Edge Service Placement:** Extending ALTO with compute information to support edge service placement and selection, focusing on the service lifecycle.
*   **Southbound API Concerns:** Concerns were raised regarding the standardization of southbound APIs, questioning the need for new protocols and the potential duplication of efforts with existing technologies like BGP, YANG models, and IPFIX. Emphasis was placed on leveraging existing standards and focusing on guidance rather than new protocol development.
*   **Data Source Integration Challenges:** The difficulty of integrating various data sources (topology, compute, metrics) into ALTO was highlighted as a key impediment to deployment.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **RFC 8895 (SSC):** Keep RFC 8895 (SSC) but not obsolete it. **Action Item:** Discuss further with Danny and Ingema regarding their implementation and rationale for retaining SSC. Language will be added to the new document stating the preferred approach while referencing RFC 8895.
*   **CATS Collaboration:** Explore a joint interim meeting with CATS to discuss the standardization of compute metrics. **Action Item:** CATS to propose dates for a joint interim meeting.
*   **Rechartering:** Discussion to continue on the ALTO mailing list regarding the future direction of the working group.
* No firm rechartering direction was taken at this meeting.

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussion on the ALTO mailing list regarding rechartering proposals.
*   Coordinate a joint interim meeting with CATS.
*   Martin Duke to discuss the future of ALTO with ISG members.
*   Chairs to evaluate if a working group meeting will occur at IETF Prague. Potential closure of the ALTO WG in one month if there isn't further coalescence on a recharter.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
