**Session Date/Time:** 27 Jul 2023 16:30

# bess

## Summary
This meeting covered a packed agenda including draft updates, working group last call discussions, adoption requests, and presentations on various topics including EVPN, IPVPN interworking, multi-homing, L2 gateway protocols, and IPsec over SRv6. A key focus was on improving document quality and managing the large backlog of drafts. Concerns were raised and discussed regarding the quality of text in documents as well as operational considerations.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **Draft Status Updates:** Several drafts are in the RFC editor queue or under ISG review. The virtual Ethernet segment draft was sent back for a second working group last call.
*   **Yang Models:** Discussion about reviving the EVPN Yang draft, with a call for active participants.
*   **Document Quality:** Concerns raised about the quality of text in documents and a proposal to form a review team to address grammatical errors and spelling mistakes before working group last call.
*   **Implementation Driven:** Emphasized the importance of implementations and demonstrations of interoperability, especially for EVPN.
*   **Adoption Criteria:** Discussed the criteria for draft adoption, emphasizing the need for significant interest from non-authors.
*   **EVPN/IPVPN Interworking Draft:** Concerns from IDR chairs regarding the D-Path attribute and potential inconsistencies in route selection. Support for SAPI 1 routes has been removed to address these concerns.
*   **Anycast Aliasing Draft:** Discussion about a new draft addressing challenges in large data centers with all-active multi-homing and control plane scale. The suggestion generated debate as to whether it solved more problems than it created.
*   **L2 Gateway Protocol Draft:** Request for working group members to review the draft, which has already been deployed by two vendors.
*   **EVP and E3 Draft:** Issues with original 8317 RFC are being addressed. Addressed changes and clarifications to 1 and 2, changes in filtering.
*   **SR for Optimized Ingress Service:** Discussed using SR to deliver and optimize ingress service and highlighted existing prototype. Discussion about the applicability of the BESS charter to the draft and the inclusion of 7348.
*   **EVPN for Top Security Draft:** Discussed the extension for eVPN multi-homing, along with updates to various processes and timelines.
*   **BGP MPLS Namespaces Draft:** Proposed solution for MPLS labels using L3VPN family and for option C labels in a more secure manner.
*   **IPSec Over SRv6:** A new tunnel type has been proposed.
*   **BGP Peer Design All SAPI Draft:** A consolidated presentation was given regarding V4V6 testing design.

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **EVPN Yang Draft:** Look for active participants to help progress the draft.
*   **Review Team:** Investigate forming a working group review team to improve document quality.
*   **Service 6 Arguments for the VPN:** Co-chairs will discuss offline to determine course of action.
*   **EVPN/IPVPN Interworking Draft:** The authors will add additional text to the security consideration section.
*   **EVPM, VPWS, cross connects Graft.:** Andrew to get the the document for the group
*   **EVPM IRD multicost**: Andrew to get the clear for the group
*   **BGP Peer Design All SAPI Draft:** Co-chairs to request consensus on the mailing list for bringing the content of the drafts into the working group draft.
*   **EVPNMP Draft:** Reviewers to review and and send and send comments to the list
*   **Working Group Members:** Review the presented drafts and provide feedback to the list.
*   **Ali:** To create a draft to go over better practices.

## Next Steps
*   Authors to incorporate feedback from the meeting into updated drafts.
*   Working group to review and provide feedback on drafts on the mailing list.
*   Co-chairs to address adoption requests and document quality issues.
*   Follow up on ongoing ISG reviews and shepherd reviews.
