<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="cdni.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-CDNI-20230726-2000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 26 Jul 2023 20:00</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># cdni

## Summary

The CDNI working group meeting covered progress on existing working group documents, considered new documents for adoption, and included open mic discussions on logging extensions and request routing interface specifications.  Significant discussion surrounded the CDNI Triggers interface second edition (RFC 8007 bis), capacity advertisement extensions, delegated credentials, new metadata objects from SVTA and the request routing interface.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **RFC 8007 bis (CDNI Triggers):**
    *   Discussion on error code extensions for unsupported specifications and handling scenarios where extensions exceed specified constraints (e.g., time limits).
    *   Debate on the mixing of v1 and v2 APIs for triggers, potential semantic issues, and backward compatibility considerations. Concern was raised that if DCDN allows both v1 and v2, what happens when a v2 preposition trigger is sent, then a v1 invalidation trigger?
    *   Proposed splitting the trigger and cancel commands into separate objects (versions 7 and 8 of the draft).
    *   Agreement to continue discussion on the mailing list.  Goal of reaching Working Group Last Call was deferred.

*   **CDNI Capacity Advertisement Extension:**
    *   Discussion on the need for an IANA registry for metric types and limit types. Decision deferred pending further discussion on the mailing list.
    *   Addressing nits and comments from reviewers.

*   **Delegated Credentials:**
    *   Discussion on the possibility of using a secrets interface to carry keys for certificates.  It was decided that out of scope for the current draft, but could be revisited when a protected secrets RFC is available.
    *   Agreement to request a security prereview of the draft.

*   **SVTA Metadata Objects (Cache Control, Edge Control, Secret Metadata):**
    *   Cache Control: Clarification on data types (string, integer, enumeration) and inclusion of examples for setting cache policies based on origin response status codes.
    *   Edge Control: Focused on cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) policies.
    *   Secret Metadata: Used for exchanging sensitive values like access tokens and encryption keys, with support for external secret stores and embedded secrets. Utilizes CMS messages for embedded secrets.
    *   A poll was taken about how many people have read the three metadata drafts. A deadline for commentary will be sent out on the mailing list before a decision about adopting the drafts is made.

*   **Named Footprint:**
    *   Concerns raised regarding the addition of new API methods in FCI and whether this violates the charter. Kevin stated that it seems like a whole new interface. Concerns include whether the changes will replace or complement Alto and the definition of dynamic footprints.
    *   Discussion on defining footprint hierarchies.
    *   Clarification that the footprint value is a URL reference to the actual footprint definition.

*   **CDNI Logging Extensions:**
    *   Overview of the scope and objectives of the proposed logging extensions, aiming to address limitations in RFC 7937.
    *   Specification of various log record formats, container formats, and transport mechanisms.
    *   Considerations for privacy, including transformations for obfuscating or redacting log fields.

*   **Request Routing Interface:**
    *   Problem statement: Existing request routing mechanisms (RFC 7975) suffer from implementation complexity and latency issues.
    *   Proposed new mechanism based on direct transmission of requests and responses, rather than custom JSON-based messaging.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **RFC 8007 bis (CDNI Triggers):**
    *   **Action Item:** Continue discussion on the mailing list to resolve outstanding issues, then consider Working Group Last Call.
    *   **Action Item:** Nir to add comments and suggestions on the mailing list based on discussion.

*   **CDNI Capacity Advertisement Extension:**
    *   **Action Item:** Ben to address comments and questions, send one more version for review, and the group to conduct a brief discussion on the mailing list to resolve the outstanding question of IANA registry, then proceed to last call.

*   **Delegated Credentials:**
    *   **Action Item:** Christoph to review additional comments.
    *   **Action Item:** Request a security prereview of the draft.

*   **SVTA Metadata Objects:**
    *   **Action Item:** Chairs to solicit feedback on mailing list with defined deadline to help encourage people to get a move on with sharing their commentary rather than putting it off.

*   **Named Footprint:**
    *   **Action Item:** Chairs to assess whether the proposed changes in the draft align with the working group's charter.
    *   **Action Item:** Ali to review the draft closely and make sure that the changes that we are proposing how they are fitting in in within the current charter.

*   **CDNI Logging Extensions:**
    *   **Action Item:** Ben to submit the logging extensions draft.

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussions on mailing lists for RFC 8007 bis (CDNI Triggers), Capacity Advertisement, Metadata, and the Request Routing Interface to resolve outstanding issues and progress towards Working Group Last Call where appropriate.
*   Submit updated versions of drafts to the mailing list for further review.
*   Chairs to follow up on the request for adoption for new drafts.
*   Next meeting at IETF 118 in Prague. A request will be made for the meeting to be held early in the IETF schedule (Monday or Tuesday) to accommodate SVTA meeting attendees.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
