**Session Date/Time:** 25 Jul 2023 00:30

# dhc

## Summary

This meeting covered the working group status, a presentation on self-generated IPv6 addresses using DHCPv6, and an update on the progress of the RFC 8415 bis document. Discussions focused on transaction ID handling, retransmission mechanisms, the need for implementation experience, and operational issues related to prefix delegation.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Self-Generated IPv6 Addresses (Jen's Presentation):**
    *   Reply messages are now non-optional.
    *   Clarification needed regarding transaction ID handling by the server (should the server log, ignore, or process duplicate messages with the same ID?).
    *   Client should verify transaction ID when stopping retransmissions.
    *   Standard retransmission algorithm defined in RFC 8415 should be used.
    *   The draft can be a nice addition to a monitoring system to detect misconfigurations and rogue RAs.
*   **RFC 8415 bis (Bernie's Presentation):**
    *   Removal of multicast status code and related code.
    *   Discussion on misbehaving PD clients releasing prefixes prematurely.
    *   Should newer RFCs (e.g., 9096) related to prefix delegation operational issues be referenced?
    *   Concerns raised about the deprecation of the unicast option in the context of relays.
    *   The need for efficient transmission of unicast packets from relays.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Self-Generated IPv6 Addresses:**
    *   Bernie will provide comments on transaction ID handling on the mailing list.
    *   Authors will investigate implementation experience and update the list.
    *   Consider hackathon in Prague to implement the draft.
*   **RFC 8415 bis:**
    *   Michael Richardson will submit a PR with proposed text related to prefix delegation issues.
    *   Discuss with the AD and document checker regarding referencing newer operational RFCs.

## Next Steps

*   **Self-Generated IPv6 Addresses:**
    *   Address comments from the mailing list.
    *   Investigate implementation options, potentially including a lightweight logging implementation.
    *   Determine if the draft is ready for working group last call.
*   **RFC 8415 bis:**
    *   Incorporate PR from Michael Richardson.
    *   Address remaining typos and minor issues.
    *   Aim to send the document to the ISG before IETF 118, or a more realistic later date.
*   Lorenzo will send V6 Ops drafts to this working group for review.
