<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="gendispatch.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-GENDISPATCH-20230725-2200">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 25 Jul 2023 22:00</p>
<h1>gendispatch</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The gendispatch meeting covered several topics related to improving IETF processes. Discussions included reducing ISG workload, improving the randomness of the nomcom selection process, enhancing code discoverability related to IETF drafts and RFCs, and formalizing the discuss criteria. The main dispatch question revolved around whether to form working groups or other entities to address these challenges.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>ISG Workload:</strong> Adrian and Rich presented a draft proposing ways to reduce ISG workload, highlighting challenges such as difficulty filling ISG positions, document throughput issues, and neglect of other ISG responsibilities. There was a discussion on whether to create a working group to propose experiments for the ISG, with varying opinions on scope and methodology (experiments vs. a broader principles document).</li>
<li><strong>NomCom Randomness:</strong> Donald Eastlake presented a draft addressing potential manipulation of the nomcom selection process. The solution proposed using a hash chain to improve randomness. The dispatch question was whether this should go to a working group or be AD-sponsored.</li>
<li><strong>Code Discoverability:</strong> Charles Eckl presented on enhancing the discoverability of code related to Internet drafts and RFCs by setting up repositories and using data tracker features. The discussion centered on whether publishing a BCP was needed or if existing communication and tools were sufficient.</li>
<li><strong>Discuss Criteria:</strong> Mark Nottingham proposed formalizing the discuss criteria as a BCP to ensure community buy-in. Discussions revolved around community involvement, ISG ownership, the document's scope, and potential effects of formalizing the criteria and its change control.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>ISG Workload:</strong> The group agreed to summarize the discussions on the mailing list to gather further feedback on whether to form a working group or pursue other solutions.</li>
<li><strong>NomCom Randomness:</strong> It was decided that further discussion was needed on the mailing list regarding the best path for this work to proceed and that re-chartering allergy was a potential solution.</li>
<li><strong>Discuss Criteria:</strong> Attendees were asked to express their feedback on Martin's (chair) question on the mailing list to help determine the next steps for the document.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Chairs to summarize the ISG Workload discussion on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Chairs to provide follow up to presenters and community.</li>
<li>Community to provide feedback on the NomCom Randomness approach on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Community to provide feedback on Discuss Criteria document on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
