<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="idr.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-IDR-20230724-2000">Recording 1</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-IDR-20230726-0000">Recording 2</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 24 Jul 2023 20:00</p>
<h1>IDR Session</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The IDR session covered a wide range of topics, including updates on various drafts, working group status, and discussions around key routing and signaling mechanisms.  Significant discussion revolved around the CAR and CT drafts, SRv6, and several proposed extensions to BGP. The session also featured requests for working group adoption for certain drafts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Working Group Status:</strong> The ISG is serious about the 5 author limit on RFCs and Internet drafts. The B2B Yang model is finished with working group last call.  CAR and CT are in last call. The SRV6 policy document shipper review is done.</li>
<li><strong>Link Bandwidth:</strong> Two flavors of link bandwidth are floating around; efforts are underway to clean this up, potentially involving an interim meeting.</li>
<li><strong>Segment Routing Policies:</strong> Concerns about unimplemented types. Discussion on potentially separating unimplemented types into a separate document.</li>
<li><strong>CAR/CT (Class for Transport):</strong>  Discussion on the need for intent-based routing and forwarding. Reviewers are needed, and feedback is strongly requested. Support will be judged by the end of the week. Addressing concerns about dependencies on non-adopted drafts.  Discussion on redundancy aspects of BGP CT.</li>
<li><strong>BGP CAR Updates:</strong> Extended for SRv6. Locator distribution, new SAFI for transport purposes. Addressing concerns on why CAR is not reusing existing SAFI.</li>
<li><strong>BGP Colorful Prefix Routing (CPR) for SRv6:</strong>  Informational document. The basic principle of the CPR is to make use of the SR 6 locators to represent the different in terms of colors. Discussion on the relation between interdomain and explicitly limited domain protocol.</li>
<li><strong>Multiple Next Hop Attribute (MNH):</strong>  Discussion on removing the propagation scope checker. Use cases: ECMP, load balancing, label oscillation avoidance. Request for adoption.</li>
<li><strong>SRv6 Segment List Optimization:</strong> Proposed solution for optimization of tail-end decapsulation, including a new &quot;egress node SID&quot; flag.</li>
<li><strong>OEDI (Overlapping EGP Domains Interconnect):</strong> New peering type to carry IBGP specific attributes across administrative domains. New session type.</li>
<li><strong>5G Edge Service Metadata:</strong> Site availability index, preference index, service delay prediction. Expert review recommended for INA registry.</li>
<li><strong>Transport Network Aware and Mobility:</strong> Utilize flows back to pass the policy into the ingress node. Redirect into SD WAN IPSec tunnels.</li>
<li><strong>Segment List Protection:</strong> B flag in the segment list ABTRV to indicate a pure backup list.</li>
<li><strong>SRV6 and MPLS Coexistence:</strong> A new capability code for SRv6 based BGP service proposed.</li>
<li><strong>BGP-LS Draft for SR Policy Advertisement:</strong> Advertising SR policies from PC.</li>
<li><strong>Validity of SR Policy Candidate Path:</strong> Introduce control parameters for the regulatory adjustment of county pass.</li>
<li><strong>BGP over QUIC:</strong>  Discussion of using QUIC as a transport for BGP. Potential benefits include better resiliency and enhanced security. Major concepts discussed: &quot;channels&quot; and asymmetric sessions. Addressed concerns about certificate management.</li>
<li><strong>MP-BGP Extension and Procedure for IPv6 Mapping Out of a Testament:</strong> Using existing fyscoffycompilation and new BTP actually pass out.</li>
<li><strong>IPv4PI:</strong> Explicit Node Requirement Update</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>CAR/CT:</strong> Working group last call to continue until the end of the week. Reviewers strongly encouraged to provide feedback. Authors to address concerns about dependencies.</li>
<li><strong>Link Bandwidth:</strong>  Expect potential interim to address the two flavors of link bandwidth.</li>
<li><strong>Segment Routing Policies:</strong> Discussion to continue on the mailing list regarding splitting off unimplemented types into a separate document.</li>
<li><strong>All drafts:</strong> send a formal request to the list, and we will take it from there.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to address raised concerns and feedback on the mailing lists.</li>
<li>Chairs to assess working group support for the various draft proposals.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list regarding splitting off unimplemented types in segment routing policy documents.</li>
<li>Consider presenting BGP over QUIC to side of ops to get feedback on its security implications.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 26 Jul 2023 00:00</p>
<h1>idr</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The second IDR session covered several topics, including BGP Flow Specification extensions for Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN), secondary labels for BGP, BPLS extensions for security capabilities, path attribute escape, and source address validation architecture. Discussions revolved around protocol extensions, operational considerations, and potential solutions for identified problems.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>BGP Flow Specification Extensions for TSN:</strong> Presented extensions for mapping TSN streams to flat flows and vice versa, including filtering rules and latency actions. Alignment with BGP FS version 2 and the Intransit Datapath working group was mentioned.</li>
<li><strong>BGP Secondary Label:</strong> A proposal to use a secondary label in BGP to address label churn issues when using per-next-hop received label allocation mode in conjunction with prefix-independent convergence (PIC). The secondary label would be based on the primary path, aiming to improve convergence and prevent label exhaustion.</li>
<li><strong>BPLS Extensions for Security Capabilities:</strong> A presentation on extending BPLS to carry security capabilities, including node, link, and prefix attributes. The motivation stemmed from the need for coordination across multiple regions with different security equipment.</li>
<li><strong>Path Attribute Escape:</strong> A discussion on the operational problems caused by path attributes propagating outside their intended scope, leading to inconsistent route selection, black holes, and session failures. The presentation suggested building a taxonomy of common scoping criteria and exploring mitigation strategies.</li>
<li><strong>Source Address Validation Architecture:</strong> Presentation of a source address validation architecture focusing on automatic updates and accurate validation. The architecture involves exchanging source-specific information to generate more accurate sub-rules than those based solely on routing information. Extending BGP to carry this source-specific information was considered.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>BGP Flow Specification Extensions for TSN:</strong> Seek feedback from the IDR working group on the presented extensions.</li>
<li><strong>BGP Secondary Label:</strong> Engage with the IETF regarding proper procedures for the proposed attribute.</li>
<li><strong>BPLS Extensions for Security Capabilities:</strong> Add &quot;TBD&quot; to attribute codes until allocations are confirmed.</li>
<li><strong>Path Attribute Escape:</strong> Socialize the ideas presented and engage with the operational community. Build a problem statement and start building mitigations, operational procedures, and potentially documentation.</li>
<li><strong>Source Address Validation Architecture:</strong>  Welcome comments on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussions on the IDR mailing list for all presented topics.</li>
<li>Present the &quot;Path Attribute Escape&quot; concept to other relevant groups, including the nogs.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
