**Session Date/Time:** 25 Jul 2023 22:00

# intarea

## Summary
The intarea working group meeting at IETF 117 covered several topics, including updates on liaison activities with IEEE 802.1, IP addressing with references, proxy configuration and provisioning domains, trusted domain SRV6, and civic location and geospatial coordinate support. The discussions centered around technical details, potential security implications, and the suitability of different configuration mechanisms.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **IEEE 802.1 Liaison:** Feedback from IEEE 802.1 on RFC 7042 bis was presented. Most comments were editorial, but some technical comments on MAC address definitions were also provided.
*   **IP Addressing with References:** Waldemar presented updates on the IP addressing with references draft, focusing on its use in IPv6 internetworking and its impact on both IPv6 and IPv4.  Discussion revolved around the problem statement being addressed by the draft.
*   **Communicating Proxy Configurations and Provisioning the Links:** Tommy presented a draft on using provisioning domains (PVDs) to configure proxies, aiming to replace PAC files. The discussion centered around the use cases and the appropriate venue for this work (inter area vs. mask).
*   **Trusted Domain SRV6:** Andrew presented a proposal for a trusted domain SRV6 using a new EtherType to address security vulnerabilities. There was significant debate about the practicality and necessity of a new EtherType, with concerns raised about management overhead and potential protocol forking. There was also concern from an operator that the IETF already has tools in place to handle the issue, and that the proposal attempts to reinvent something.
*   **Civic Location and Geospatial Coordinate Support:** Shree presented a proposal to extend IPv6 ND to support location information for emergency calling, similar to DHCP options. The discussion focused on the suitability of different mechanisms (RA, DHCP, PVD) and concerns about RA unicast requirements.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **RFC 7042 bis:** Donnel will incorporate the IEEE 802.1 comments into a new revision (o7) for publication soon.
*   **Communicating Proxy Configurations and Provisioning the Links:**  Tommy will consider feedback and potentially re-scope the document based on further discussion on the mailing list.  Will review previous work by Petter.
*   **Trusted Domain SRV6:** The authors will consider the feedback and continue discussion on the mailing list.  They will also consider working group adoption based on further discussion.
*   **Civic Location and Geospatial Coordinate Support:**  The authors will consider the feedback, particularly concerning update strategies and avoiding unicast RAs. PVD options seem to be the more viable.

## Next Steps

*   Continue discussions on the mailing lists for all drafts.
*   Consider working group adoption for drafts with sufficient maturity and interest.
*   Address open issues and comments raised during the meeting in future draft revisions.
