<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="lsvr.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-LSVR-20230725-2000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 25 Jul 2023 20:00</p>
<h1>lsvr</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The lsvr working group meeting at IETF 117 covered several key topics including document status updates, a new SD-WAN use case for BGP SPF, and future directions for the working group, including a potential recharter. Discussions focused on the relationship between BGP SPF, BGPLS, and the broader routing landscape, raising questions about functional splits and coordination with other working groups.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Document Status:</strong> Updates were provided on the core protocol specification, applicability statement, BGP LS Yang model, and individual drafts like BGP SPF for SD-WAN and the implementation report.</li>
<li><strong>L3DL Drafts:</strong> The expired L3DL drafts were discussed, with a decision to refresh them and formally include them in a recharter.</li>
<li><strong>BGP SPF for SD-WAN:</strong> A presentation introduced a new use case for BGP SPF in multi-segment SD-WAN, sparking debate on charter relevance and potential implications for the working group's scope.</li>
<li><strong>Yang Model Discussion:</strong> Whether to keep BGP-LS and LS SPF in one Yang document or to split them in two.</li>
<li><strong>Rechartering:</strong> The need to review and potentially revise the working group charter was highlighted, considering L3DL work and the evolving landscape of BGP SPF applications.</li>
<li><strong>Functional Split &amp; Coordination:</strong> A broader discussion ensued regarding the potential for functional splits in LS-related work, specifically the division between IDR and LSVR. Concerns were raised about expertise overlap and the need for strong communication between working groups.</li>
<li><strong>Implementation Spec:</strong> There was general consensus that this document should be adopted into the working group.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Refresh L3DL Drafts:</strong> Randy will refresh the L3DL drafts.</li>
<li><strong>Start Recharter Discussions:</strong> The working group will begin discussions on rechartering, aiming to have a draft proposal ready by the next Prague IETF meeting.</li>
<li><strong>Review BGP SPF Base Spec:</strong> Hangshi will review the BGP SPF base spec to identify areas of leverage and new additions.</li>
<li><strong>Hold Cross-WG Discussion:</strong> Routing ADs and chairs from IDR, LSVR, and potentially TEAS/SPRING will convene to discuss functional splits and coordination strategies for LS-related work.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to submit version 27 of BGP-SPF core protocol specification taking into account comments from Alvaro and other sources</li>
<li>Authors to address open issues and AC's comments on the BGP-LS Yang model.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list regarding charter revisions and functional splits.</li>
<li>Coordinate a meeting between relevant ADs and WG chairs to discuss functional splits.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
