<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="manet.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-MANET-20230726-0000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 26 Jul 2023 00:00</p>
<h1>manet</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The MANET working group meeting covered document status updates, presentations on potential new work items, and initial discussions on rechartering the group.  Two presentations were given: one on a generic topology update mechanism (&quot;stoop&quot;) and another on the possibility of using Babel as a routing protocol within 802.11 mesh networks. There was significant discussion on the applicability and scope of these proposals.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Credit-Based Flow Control Documents:</strong> The four credit-based flow control drafts have been in the working group for an extended period. The Shepard write-up is almost complete, and the main sticking point was the lack of a rationale for having four documents. The working group is aiming to move these documents forward quickly and request routing directorate review in parallel with TSVART review.</li>
<li><strong>Layer 1.5 Drafts:</strong>  Three Layer 1.5 drafts will be put through a working group adoption call following the meeting.  The chair expressed support for adopting these.</li>
<li><strong>Generic Topology Update Mechanism (&quot;stoop&quot;):</strong> David Ru presented a new draft proposing a generic topology update mechanism aimed at improving efficiency in MANETs.  The mechanism triggers updates based on changes in communication relations rather than topology changes themselves.  Discussions focused on integration with existing routing protocols (e.g., OLSRv2), handling triangle topologies, sequence number management, and how the proposed mechanism would be combined with existing routing tables. The consensus was the discussion should be continued on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Babel for 802.11 Mesh:</strong> Donald Eastlake presented the possibility of using Babel as the routing protocol within 802.11 mesh networks. This would involve creating an RFC specifying how to use Babel in this context, and potentially using Babel link metrics. Discussions centered on whether the IETF should be working on a data plane protocol for 802.11, the lack of a clear use case or implementer interest, and the potential complexities involved.</li>
<li><strong>Rechartering:</strong>  Brief discussion about rechartering the working group. Current work items were listed. Suggestions were made about the process for rechartering and need for and interim meeting.  There was mention of potential new work related to satellite routing from the RTGWG.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Shepherd:</strong> Louis will complete the shepherd write-up for the credit-based flow control documents.</li>
<li><strong>Chair:</strong> Request routing directorate review for the credit-based flow control drafts.</li>
<li><strong>Working Group Adoption Call:</strong> The three Layer 1.5 drafts will be put through a working group adoption call.</li>
<li><strong>Continue Discussions on Mailing List:</strong> Discussions on &quot;stoop&quot; and &quot;Babel for 802.11 Mesh&quot; will continue on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Rechartering Interim Meeting:</strong>  Set up an interim meeting to continue rechartering discussions</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Complete shepherd write-up and request routing directorate review for credit-based flow control documents.</li>
<li>Hold a working group adoption call for the Layer 1.5 drafts.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list regarding the proposed &quot;stoop&quot; and &quot;Babel for 802.11 Mesh&quot; drafts.</li>
<li>Schedule an interim meeting to discuss rechartering and a time to push out Loose's documents.</li>
<li>The chairs will have a conversation with the RTG WG chairs to discuss possible requirements for satellite routing.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
