<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="mediaman.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-MEDIAMAN-20230727-2230">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 27 Jul 2023 22:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># mediaman

## Summary

The mediaman working group met to discuss the status of several drafts related to media types. Key topics included: the last call for the top-level media type draft, the haptics draft, the suffixes draft, and the standards tree draft. A significant portion of the discussion focused on the suffixes draft, particularly around issues of inline updates vs. new RFCs, suffix registration templates, specification required registries, and ensuring subtype semantics.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Top-Level Media Type Draft:** The last call has ended, and the draft is ready to be forwarded to the ISG for processing.
*   **Haptics Draft:** Minor issues identified in version 3 have been fixed in subsequent versions. A minor issue relating to registering 2 formats in one template will be sent to the mailing list. Consensus appears to exist to move forward without another working group last call.
*   **Suffixes Draft:**
    *   The concept of pipelining has been removed, simplifying the algorithms.
    *   Discussion on whether to update 6838 inline or create a new RFC. The general consensus is to create a new RFC.
    *   The suffixes registration template needs revision, but whether this can be done in a separate document is an open question.
    *   The registry is specification required, but the IANA registry needs to be updated to reflect this.
    *   Concern about expert reviewers ensuring subtype semantics when structured suffixes are registered. A proposal suggests the change controller for the base subtype should be responsible.
    *   Concerns raised about the potential for misinterpreting media types with different suffixes and the need for coordination between communities registering related types.
    *   Strong argument made for obsoleteing 6838, redoing suffix illustrations, and ensuring it is carefully checked and put in the new document to make sure we have it all covered.
*   **Standards Tree Draft:** Proposal for a drop-in replacement for section 3.1 in RFC 6838. Allows registrations from recognized standard bodies and community organizations. Concern about over-eager participants and ensuring appropriate criteria are in place.
*   **6838 Update Strategy:** The group discussed different approaches to updating RFC 6838. The emerging plan is to proceed with existing drafts separately and then consolidate them into a new revision of 6838, seeking assurance from the ISG that unchanged pieces can remain unchanged.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Top-Level Media Type Draft:** Harold will write up and forward to the ISG for processing.
*   **Haptics Draft:** Alexei will send an email to the mailing list regarding the minor issue of registering 2 formats in one template.
*   **Suffixes Draft:** Further discussion and work required on the issues identified, including the question of new RFC vs. update, registration template revision, and ensuring subtype semantics. This work will continue on the mailing list and issue tracker.
*   **Standards Tree Draft:** Adopt the draft. Harold will send out a note to the mailing list asking for opinions on adopting the draft, and if there is no strong opposition, the group will adopt it.
*   **Charter Update:** Add explicit language to the charter regarding the treatment of multiple suffixes, and a decision point to conduct a consensus call, to guide the area director in the update of 6838.

## Next Steps

*   Continue working on the suffixes draft on the mailing list and issue tracker.
*   Explore options for updating the IANA registry to reflect that the suffixes registry is specification required.
*   Harold to send a note to the mailing list regarding the adoption of the standards tree draft.
*   Harold to add explicit language to the charter regarding the treatment of multiple suffixes.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
