**Session Date/Time:** 28 Jul 2023 19:00

# ntp

## Summary

The NTP working group meeting covered updates on several drafts including Kronos, NTP Registries, Leap Seconds, NTPv5 Requirements, NTP over PTP, NTS for PTP, and Rough Time. The meeting included consensus calls, discussion of open issues, and planning for future interim meetings and a hackathon.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Kronos Update:** The Kronos draft has been updated to include a section on key load considerations, operational considerations, and implementation status.
*   **NTP Registries:** Discussion centered on allowable characters in text fields and private use designations. The group decided to retain the current practice of using 'x' for private use.
*   **Future of Leap Seconds:** An update was provided on the General Conference on Weights and Measurements (CGPM) resolution regarding the future of leap seconds.
*   **NTPv5 Requirements Draft:**
    *   Consensus was reached that NTPv5 should consider leap smearing, and this information should be disseminated by servers. The details of how smearing is announced will be further discussed.
    *   After initial disagreement, it was decided that NTPv5 *must* support client/server mode, and *may* support additional modes like broadcast. There are concerns about the security implications of supporting broadcast mode, and further discussion on this topic will continue on the mailing list.
*   **NTP over PTP:** The draft was updated and the main remaining task is to find out how to get a PTP TLV type assigned.
*   **NTS for PTP:** An update is expected in the fall, followed by an adoption call.
*   **Rough Time:**
    *   There is declining interest and momentum behind Rough Time. Implementations are not being updated and the ecosystem is not forming as envisioned.
    *   Several attendees expressed interest in contributing. Discussion centered around the value proposition of the protocol and the complexity of the current draft.
    *   A potential interim meeting focused on Rough Time spec and ecosystem document was proposed.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **NTP Registries:** Update the draft to reflect the decision to retain the 'x' designation for private use. Rick Soles to issue an updated draft next week.
*   **NTPv5 Requirements Draft:** James will update the requirements document to reflect the decisions on leap smearing and supported modes. NETA will serve as document shepherd, with assistance from the chairs and Eric Klein.
*   **NTP over PTP:** Determine how to get a PTP TLV type assigned.
*   **Rough Time:** Schedule an interim meeting to discuss the Rough Time spec and ecosystem document. Watson Latimore to work with interested parties to set up the interim meeting.

## Next Steps

*   James to update NTPv5 requirements draft and circulate for working group last call.
*   Schedule virtual interim meetings in mid-September and mid-to-late October.
*   Encourage participation in a hackathon in Prague in November focused on NTPv5 and Rough Time.
*   David to send question about security requirements for new protocols on the mailing list.
