**Session Date/Time:** 24 Jul 2023 22:30

# pce

## Summary

The PCE working group session covered a range of topics, including updates on existing documents, a discussion on charter updates, and presentations on several draft proposals. Key discussions revolved around SR policy extensions, SRv6 extensions, algorithmic constraints in PCEP, and auto-bandwidth adjustments. Decisions were made to remove certain features from one draft and to move forward with a working group last call for another. The charter update was considered ready to be sent to the IESG.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **SR Policy Extensions (Mike Kodyshev):**
    *   Discussion on whether to include backup segment list functionality in the SR policy extensions draft, given that SR policy architecture uses segment lists for load balancing, not active/backup.
    *   Agreement that the draft should focus on features within the SR policy architecture.
    *   The suggestion to remove the backup segment list section was made.
    *   Discussion of Stateful Bring Up and RFC 8231 updates.
    *   Consideration of reusing existing TLVs instead of creating a new SR Policy Capability TLV.

*   **SRv6 Extensions (Charlie):**
    *   Discussion around the MSD (Maximum SID Depth) and the X flag in the SRv6 extension draft.
    *   The working group was polled for implementation experience with the X flag.
    *   Agreement to resolve the MSD concerns.

*   **Algorithmic Constraints in PCEP (Samil):**
    *   An update on the significant changes in the latest draft version.
    *   Discussion about the number of authors exceeding the limit, with a decision to address it in the next version.

*   **SRv6 Egress Node State (Zach):**
    *   Presentation on specifying the state of the egress node in SRv6 policies.
    *   Concern raised regarding the impact on the forwarding efficiency.
    *   Suggestion to check with the Spring working group to get input.

*   **Candidate Path Validity Criteria (Zach):**
    *   Presentation on defining mechanisms for signaling the validity parameters of candidate paths for SR policies.
    *   Discussion comparing it with a similar solution in the Spring working group called "flexible candidate paths."
    *   Concerns were raised to align TLV types with PSAP.

*   **Auto-Bandwidth Adjustments (Dhruv):**
    *   Presentation on addressing an issue with removing attributes in auto-bandwidth configurations.
    *   Proposal to use a special "all zeros" value to indicate restoring to default or removing an attribute.
    *   Discussion on backwards compatibility using a new flag.

*   **TLS 1.3 Support (Sean Turner):**
    *   Request to prioritize the working group last call for the TLS 1.3 support draft.
    *   Confirmation that the draft mirrors a draft in NetComm and is close to IESG submission.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **SR Policy Extensions:**
    *   Action: Mike Kodyshev to remove the backup segment list section from the SR policy extensions draft.
    *   Action: Mike Kodyshev to use the metadata in the draft to clarify RFC 8231 update.
    *   Action: Mike Kodyshev to consider reusing existing TLVs or creating a new SR Policy Capability TLV.

*   **SRv6 Extensions:**
    *   Action: Authors to resolve the MSD concerns.
    *   Action: Working group to provide feedback on the X flag via the mailing list.

*   **Algorithmic Constraints in PCEP:**
    *   Action: Samil to address the author limit in the next version of the draft.

*   **SRv6 Egress Node State:**
    *   Action: Authors to consult with the Spring working group and revisit the design with NAI.

*   **Auto-Bandwidth Adjustments:**
    *   Working Group needs to decide whether to fix the identified issue.

*   **TLS 1.3 Support:**
    *   Decision: The chairs will place the TLS 1.3 support draft on the queue for working group last call.

*   **Charter Update:**
    *   Decision: The charter update will be sent to the IESG.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to address the action items outlined above.
*   Working group to provide feedback on open issues via the mailing list.
*   Chairs to initiate working group last calls for documents nearing completion.
*   Chairs to send the charter update to the IESG.
