<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="pce.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-PCE-20230724-2230">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 24 Jul 2023 22:30</p>
<h1>pce</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The PCE working group session covered a range of topics, including updates on existing documents, a discussion on charter updates, and presentations on several draft proposals. Key discussions revolved around SR policy extensions, SRv6 extensions, algorithmic constraints in PCEP, and auto-bandwidth adjustments. Decisions were made to remove certain features from one draft and to move forward with a working group last call for another. The charter update was considered ready to be sent to the IESG.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>SR Policy Extensions (Mike Kodyshev):</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Discussion on whether to include backup segment list functionality in the SR policy extensions draft, given that SR policy architecture uses segment lists for load balancing, not active/backup.</li>
<li>Agreement that the draft should focus on features within the SR policy architecture.</li>
<li>The suggestion to remove the backup segment list section was made.</li>
<li>Discussion of Stateful Bring Up and RFC 8231 updates.</li>
<li>Consideration of reusing existing TLVs instead of creating a new SR Policy Capability TLV.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>SRv6 Extensions (Charlie):</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Discussion around the MSD (Maximum SID Depth) and the X flag in the SRv6 extension draft.</li>
<li>The working group was polled for implementation experience with the X flag.</li>
<li>Agreement to resolve the MSD concerns.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Algorithmic Constraints in PCEP (Samil):</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>An update on the significant changes in the latest draft version.</li>
<li>Discussion about the number of authors exceeding the limit, with a decision to address it in the next version.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>SRv6 Egress Node State (Zach):</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Presentation on specifying the state of the egress node in SRv6 policies.</li>
<li>Concern raised regarding the impact on the forwarding efficiency.</li>
<li>Suggestion to check with the Spring working group to get input.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Candidate Path Validity Criteria (Zach):</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Presentation on defining mechanisms for signaling the validity parameters of candidate paths for SR policies.</li>
<li>Discussion comparing it with a similar solution in the Spring working group called &quot;flexible candidate paths.&quot;</li>
<li>Concerns were raised to align TLV types with PSAP.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Auto-Bandwidth Adjustments (Dhruv):</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Presentation on addressing an issue with removing attributes in auto-bandwidth configurations.</li>
<li>Proposal to use a special &quot;all zeros&quot; value to indicate restoring to default or removing an attribute.</li>
<li>Discussion on backwards compatibility using a new flag.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>TLS 1.3 Support (Sean Turner):</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Request to prioritize the working group last call for the TLS 1.3 support draft.</li>
<li>Confirmation that the draft mirrors a draft in NetComm and is close to IESG submission.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>SR Policy Extensions:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Action: Mike Kodyshev to remove the backup segment list section from the SR policy extensions draft.</li>
<li>Action: Mike Kodyshev to use the metadata in the draft to clarify RFC 8231 update.</li>
<li>Action: Mike Kodyshev to consider reusing existing TLVs or creating a new SR Policy Capability TLV.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>SRv6 Extensions:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Action: Authors to resolve the MSD concerns.</li>
<li>Action: Working group to provide feedback on the X flag via the mailing list.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Algorithmic Constraints in PCEP:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Action: Samil to address the author limit in the next version of the draft.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>SRv6 Egress Node State:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Action: Authors to consult with the Spring working group and revisit the design with NAI.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Auto-Bandwidth Adjustments:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Working Group needs to decide whether to fix the identified issue.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>TLS 1.3 Support:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Decision: The chairs will place the TLS 1.3 support draft on the queue for working group last call.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Charter Update:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Decision: The charter update will be sent to the IESG.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to address the action items outlined above.</li>
<li>Working group to provide feedback on open issues via the mailing list.</li>
<li>Chairs to initiate working group last calls for documents nearing completion.</li>
<li>Chairs to send the charter update to the IESG.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
