<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="rats.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-RATS-20230726-1630">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 26 Jul 2023 16:30</p>
<h1>rats</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The RATS working group session at IETF 117 covered several drafts including media types, UCCS, concise reference integrity manifest (CORIM), epoch markers, conceptual message wrapper, endorsements, and attested TLS. Discussions focused on draft maturity, adoption, security considerations, and alignment with other working groups like COSE and TLS. The group made decisions on working group last calls and identified action items for draft refinement and community engagement.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Media Types &amp; UCCS:</strong>  The drafts for media types and UCCS are considered ready for working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>CORIM:</strong>  Extensive work has been done to clarify the purpose of CORIM, especially in the introduction. A better term may be verification flow, high level verification workflow of how a coding based endorsement can be used to follow the verification.</li>
<li><strong>Epoch Markers:</strong>  The group discussed the need to clarify the interaction with COSE for signing epoch markers and whether the draft should be moved to the COSE working group.</li>
<li><strong>Conceptual Message Wrapper:</strong>  The draft is considered stable and ready for adoption but needs further review.</li>
<li><strong>Endorsements:</strong> Discussion on conditionally endorsed values, identity-related claims, and endorsements from multiple components, especially regarding the security implications.</li>
<li><strong>Attested TLS:</strong> Discussion on the need for the draft to clear up the specifications.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Working Group Last Call:</strong> Start working group last call for media types and UCCS drafts.</li>
<li><strong>CORIM:</strong> The chairs and community members agree that Korim is necessary.</li>
<li><strong>Epoch Markers:</strong> Revisit the epoch markers draft with the COSE working group to determine the best approach for signing and overall scope.</li>
<li><strong>Conceptual Message Wrapper:</strong> Initiate further review of the conceptual message wrapper draft on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Endorsements:</strong> Update the endorsements draft with input from Kathleen, Hank, and Lawrence to address identity and key material considerations. Start a separate discussion between these members to refine the draft.</li>
<li><strong>Attested TLS:</strong> Iterate on draft based on working group feedback to specify and clarify the different use cases. Then take it to the TLS working group.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to incorporate feedback from the RATS WG, particularly regarding security considerations in the endorsement drafts.</li>
<li>Coordinate interim meetings or side discussions between interested parties to resolve open issues, and then to present to the TLS working group.</li>
<li>Initiate the working group last call for media types and UCCS drafts.</li>
<li>Encourage implementers to provide feedback and participate in interoperability testing efforts.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
