<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="rift.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-RIFT-20230727-2230">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 27 Jul 2023 22:30</p>
<h1>rift</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The rift meeting in San Francisco covered the progress of the base specification, key-value registry, auto-flood reflection, and YANG model.  There was also discussion on RIFT extensions for SRv6, and DC routing for high-performance computing (HPC) specifically dragon fly topologies.  The meeting discussed implementation efforts, potential interoperability testing, and future directions for the RIFT protocol.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Base Spec Progress:</strong> Readability improvements in version 18.  Addressing AD comments related to applicability draft considerations such as misscabling, TTL values, and IPv4 broadcast usage. Focus on addressing all existing comments and reviews.</li>
<li><strong>Key Value Registry:</strong> Minor maintenance and editorial fixes. Dependent on the base spec being finalized.</li>
<li><strong>Auto-Flood Reflection:</strong> Fixed errors in ASCII topologies. Added matching SVGs. Completed the YANG model. Discussed working group adoption after the base spec is finalized.</li>
<li><strong>RIFT YANG Model:</strong> Nearing completion with minor modifications. Further review encouraged and has been submitted to the IESG.  Will wait for base spec stability before further IESG processing.</li>
<li><strong>RIFT Extensions for SRv6 (SRv6 Locator KW TIE):</strong> Initial attempt to support SRv6 in data centers. Discussion on scalability challenges associated with flooding large key-value entries. Need to avoid broadcast approach and instead target configuration distribution. Suggestion to evolve the draft into a more generic mechanism for configuration distribution.</li>
<li><strong>DC Routing for High-Performance Compute (Dragonfly Topologies):</strong> Explored the applicability of RIFT to dragonfly topologies for HPC and potentially AI/ML clusters. Concerns about the complexity of BGP solutions. Agreement that RIFT could support dragonfly topologies with summarization. Discussion of horizontal links between spines.  Concerns were raised about supporting non-equal cost multipath and minimizing latency for best performance in sparse dragonfly implementations. Congestion notification and awareness. Also discussed HPC versus ML use cases with Dragonfly.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Jordan Head (Juniper):</strong> Double-check and address all outstanding AD comments on the base spec and reach out to Drew.</li>
<li><strong>Sanghi (ZTE):</strong> Update the working group on progress towards interoperability testing, and investigate the possibility of a RIFT hackathon in Prague.</li>
<li><strong>Tony P. (Juniper):</strong> Investigate how to address concerns on scaling the size of the locator key value tie in the SRv6 draft and how to generalize the draft into something more generic.</li>
<li><strong>Authors of RIFT extensions for SRv6 (SRv6 Locator KW TIE):</strong> Evolve the draft to be more generic to handle various use cases.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Finalize the RIFT base specification.</li>
<li>Progress towards working group adoption of auto-flood reflection.</li>
<li>Continued discussion on applying RIFT to dragonfly topologies and high-performance computing environments in particular AI/ML and synchronization methodologies.</li>
<li>Potential interim meeting to discuss primary/secondary approaches for state synchronization.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
