**Session Date/Time:** 27 Jul 2023 16:30

# rswg

## Summary
The RFC Series Working Group (rswg) meeting at IETF 117 covered several key topics:  XML RFC versioning and updates (specifically related to RFC7991),  defining error handling in RFC7990bis, and the overarching question of what constitutes a change to an RFC and when changes are acceptable.  The group discussed the tension between preserving authorial intent and maintaining a consistent and up-to-date RFC series.  There was also significant discussion regarding Unicode support in RFCs and the tools used to create them.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **XML RFC Versioning:** The group discussed whether to publish the current state of the XML RFC format (3.x) as a snapshot or to clean it up first. John Lavigne presented the state of XML RFC and proposed fixing some issues, notably related to postal addresses and the `docname` field in RFC elements.
*   **RFC 7990bis:** Paul Hoffman presented on the draft RFC7990bis and the definition of "canonical format" and "errors" within the document. Mark Nottingham's comments on the mailing list were highlighted.
*   **Changing RFCs:** Martin Thompson presented a draft policy document regarding changing RFCs, focusing on preserving authorial intent and archival considerations. The group debated whether changes should only apply to new RFCs or if they should be applied retroactively.
*   **Canonical Format and Updates:** The group extensively discussed the concept of a "canonical format" and whether it's necessary, with some suggesting it should be removed entirely. The discussion extended to updates (including errata) and versioning of RFCs, with some advocating for inline updates.
*   **Unicode Support:**  Robert Sparks discussed enabling Unicode in the XML RFC tool, with the consensus being that the tool should be permissive and allow Unicode "pretty much anywhere," leaving enforcement to the RFC editors. Concerns were raised about different streams (e.g., IETF vs. IRTF) having different requirements.
*   **The role of RSAB and the RPC:** Discussion on how RSAB and RPC can work with the working group to solve issues. Should RSAB be consulted before implementation or only if there are questions?

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **Action Item:** Martin Thompson to update his draft policy document with the suggestions from the group, using issues in his repository as discussion points.

*   **Decision:** Martin Thompson's draft will be adopted as a working group document. Paul Hoffman's draft (RFC7990bis) will be revisited after Martin's document is finalized and potentially point to it for policy on making changes.
*   **Action Item:** The chairs (Pete Resnick) will rename the existing working group repository to RSWG, to make it easier to find.

*   **Decision:** The XML RFC tool will be updated to allow Unicode characters "pretty much anywhere," with the RFC editors responsible for enforcing style guidelines and policy on its usage.

## Next Steps
*   Martin Thompson to create a repository for his draft document.
*   Chairs to schedule online interim meetings to discuss the draft policy document.
*   Chairs to push the work forward and twist arms where necessary.
