<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="v6ops.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF117-V6OPS-20230725-1630">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 25 Jul 2023 16:30</p>
<pre><code class="language-markdown"># v6ops

## Summary
The v6ops session covered a range of topics related to IPv6 deployment and operation, including ND considerations, IPv6 over NBMA networks, multi-domain IPv6-only networks, unique prefix per device using DHCPv6-PD, IPv6 flow label usage, destination options handling in cloud environments, site multi-homing, extension header use cases, DNS resolution over IPv6, and prefix delegation on LAN networks. Discussions centered on practical challenges, existing solutions, and potential future work.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **ND Considerations:**  Discussion on ND issues in specific environments (wireless, large L2 networks) and host isolation techniques. Guidelines were presented for determining appropriate isolation methods.
*   **IPv6 over NBMA:** Presented architecture for IPv6 over NBMA networks, highlighting the need to decouple L2 and L3 concepts. Addressed issues with IPv6 ND and Slack in modern infrastructure.
*   **Multi-Domain IPv6-Only Networks:** Update on the framework for providing IPv4 service over multi-domain IPv6-only networks. Presented a testing network setup and communication modes.
*   **Unique Prefix per Device (DHCPv6-PD):** Addressed concerns regarding prefix length, Slack usage, terminology (host vs. router), and peer-to-peer communication. The draft now focuses on &quot;devices&quot; and avoids prescribing a /64 prefix length.
*   **IPv6 Flow Label Usage:** Proposed using the IPv6 flow label to encode community and activity identifiers for telemetry purposes. Discussed potential conflicts with ECMP/LAG hashing and existing RFC guidelines.
*   **Destination Options Handling:** Investigated destination options handling in cloud environments. Found issues with traffic blockage and ICMP checksum calculation errors in certain cloud setups.
*   **Site Multi-Homing:** Review of available methods for providing site multi-homing with redundancy, including PI/PA addressing, ULA with NAT66/MPT6, and application-level probes. Addressed ULA limitations.
*   **Extension Header Use Cases:** Discussed documenting extension header use cases. Addressed potential benefits and drawbacks, and the need to focus on existing and non-controversial use cases.
*   **DNS over IPv6:** Explored a solution for iterative DNS resolution using IPv6-only resolvers by translating IPv4 addresses of authoritative name servers. Addressed concerns about scope and DNSSEC compatibility.
*   **Prefix Delegation on LAN:** Focuses on prefix delegation to home routers, and supporting different strategies.
## Decisions and Action Items
*   **ND Considerations:**  Ask for working group last call in the near future.
*   **Multi-Domain IPv6-Only Networks:** The next step is to collect comments and suggestions, make a further improvement with the document and plan to demo in IETF 118.
*   **Unique Prefix per Device (DHCPv6-PD):** Authors will prepare -00 version for working group last call.
*   **IPv6 Flow Label Usage:** Work will be documented, it is proposed that this is something the working group on should adopt, the working group chair will take it to the list to gather opinions from the working group on adoption.
*   **Destination Options Handling:** This is a never ending discussion in the working group.
*   **Site Multi-Homing:** Refine the draft to reflect the concerns raised about ULA addressing, review possible solutions.
*   **Prefix Delegation on LAN:** Revise to take account of the points raised at the meeting and get ready for adoption.

## Next Steps
*   Authors to update drafts based on meeting feedback.
*   Consider working group last calls for stable drafts after updates.
*   Continue discussions on mailing lists for unresolved issues.
*   Further investigation and documentation for IPv6 deployment challenges and operational experiences.
</code></pre>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
