**Session Date/Time:** 27 Jul 2023 20:00

```markdown
# webtrans

## Summary

The webtrans working group meeting at IETF 117 covered progress on the W3C web transport specification, as well as the h2 and h3 drafts. Discussions centered around priority groups, retransmissions, error handling, protocol version negotiation, and flow control. Several action items were identified to progress the specifications.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **W3C Web Transport:**  Discussed priority groups, explicit priority groups for different flows and the potential API for managing them. Discussed the handling of retransmissions in the context of send order.
*   **H2 Web Transport:**  Discussed error handling, agreeing to follow a similar approach to h3.  Reviewed the omission of the "final size" field in reset stream capsules and confirmed its continued absence. Reviewed and agreed on clarifications regarding max sessions and stream limits.
*   **H3 Web Transport:**  Discussed the utility of key exporters and concerns regarding the limited applicability within the IETF context. Debated protocol version negotiation, focusing on different approaches to manage compatibility and version support. The potential inclusion of session limits and flow control mechanisms in h3 was heavily debated.
*   **Flow Control:**  Heated debate occurred on whether additional flow control above that provided by QUIC is required for webtransport, and if so, when such flow control is required. A number of implementers expressed reluctance to implement additional flow control immediately.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **W3C Web Transport:** Will Law to summarize the priority discussion and present it to the W3C.
*   **H2 Web Transport:** No final size on h2 Reset Frame. Editorial changes to Cumulative Streams.
*   **H3 Web Transport:**
    *   Martin to file an issue at the W3C for discussion of key exporters.
    *   The protocol version negotiation issue will be taken back to the issue tracker for further clarification.
    *   David to speak to the HTTP-based chairs about Server Associated Bidirectional Streams and whether the lack of a document for the same will cause delays.
    *   Discuss scheduling an interim meeting for testing web transport implementations on the mailing list.
*   Victor is also taking the action item for typing up agreements made at the current meeting.

## Next Steps

*   Address the action items identified during the meeting.
*   Continue implementation and testing of the web transport specifications.
*   Discuss potential interim meeting for interop testing on the mailing list.
*   Continue discussion on the h3 issues on the mailing list, including the issue of server associated bidirectional streams, and that of pooling support.
```