**Session Date/Time:** 21 Jul 2025 12:30

```markdown
# cdni

## Summary
The CDNI working group meeting covered several key topics, including charter discussions, document updates, and potential working group last calls.  Gory Fairhurst provided guidance on re-chartering.  Several drafts were discussed, with specific focus on protected secrets, edge control metadata, triggers, footprints, client access control, cache control metadata, processing stages, metadata expression language, delivery metadata, and source access control.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **Charter Discussion:** Gory Fairhurst outlined the process for re-chartering, emphasizing the need to focus on the working group's intentions rather than specific documents. He advised separating milestones and making the charter text smaller and more general.
*   **Protected Secrets:** Ben discussed the need for a security review and Gori suggested considering making the HashiCorp Vault reference informational instead of normative.
*   **Edge Control Metadata:** Alfonso presented the edge control metadata draft and the group agreed to move forward with a working group last call.
*   **Triggers:** Ellen provided an update on the triggers draft, discussing IANA registry management (RFC-managed vs. specification-required) and mandatory features. The group agreed that not all trigger actions should be mandatory for compliance. Concerns were raised about specifying internal behaviours and how they violate the autonomy of DCDNs.
*   **Footprints:** Ellen discussed the footprints draft, focusing on clarifying the problem statement and data model, while postponing discussion of the interface. Kevin provided review comments and Alan clarified the intent of cananonical naming and that a new type of base object could be required.
*   **Client Access Control:** Christian presented an update on Glenn's client access control draft. The discussion focused on finding an appropriate registry for TLS versions and the benefits of specifying minimum acceptable versions.
*   **Cache Control Metadata, Processing Stages, and Metadata Expression Language:** Sanjay presented these documents, noting that they were ready for working group last call but were awaiting charter approval. Telephonic has been supporting the draft and has already about 75% of the expression language deployed in production and also almost the 100% of the processing stage is drafted.
*   **Delivery Metadata:** Guillaume presented on delivery metadata, there was a discussion as to whether is scope was CDN interconnect or CDN internal.
*   **Source Access Control:** Christian presented on Glenn's source access control draft, and it was questioned whether it would be ready for working group adoption.

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **Protected Secrets:** Ben will consider making the HashiCorp Vault reference informational and reply to the mailing list with proposed next steps. The working group will then consider an early security review.
*   **Edge Control Metadata:** Move forward with a working group last call.
*   **Charter Discussion:** Chairs will finalize the charter text and work with Gory for IESG review.
*   **Triggers:** Need additional reviews of this draft.
*   **All drafts:** Readers are encouraged to provide feedback and review,

## Next Steps
*   Chairs to finalize the charter text and submit to the IESG.
*   Ben to respond to the mailing list regarding next steps for the protected secrets draft.
*   Begin the working group last call for the edge control metadata draft.
*   Alan to post his feedback on the delivery metadata draft in the mailing list.
*   Evaluate moving source access control to WG adoption in the future.
