<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="detnet.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF123-DETNET-20250725-1230">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 25 Jul 2025 12:30</p>
<h1>detnet</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The detnet working group meeting in Madrid covered several key topics, including updates on published RFCs, discussion of the taxonomy draft, and presentations of various queuing and forwarding solutions. A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to presentations and discussions of proposed data plane solutions and their categorization within the existing taxonomy. Issues related to terminology, multi-domain networking, and requirements for scaling deterministic networks were also addressed. Finally there was a recap of the hackathon's result.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Taxonomy Draft:</strong> Discussion centered around the definitions of &quot;regulator&quot; vs. &quot;shaper&quot;, clarifying terminology, and refining the definition of &quot;suitable category&quot;. Debate ensued about the classifications within the document.</li>
<li><strong>Queuing Solutions:</strong> Several queuing solutions were presented, including Stateless Fair Queuing (Cisco), Deadline-Based Forwarding, Time Slot Queuing and Forwarding, and On-Time Forwarding with PIFO queue. Each presentation included a discussion of how the solution fits into the taxonomy.</li>
<li><strong>Data Plane:</strong> Discussion around the need for a data plane solution using SRV6. The working group identified it as being an SRV6 based data plane, specifically related to pre-off functions</li>
<li><strong>Scaling Requirements:</strong> Discussions on the scaling requirements draft and the need to update it based on adopted solutions.</li>
<li><strong>Multi-Domain Networking:</strong> Discussion of requirements for multi-domain deterministic networking.</li>
<li><strong>Requirements Document:</strong> Discussion of how to incorporate new requirements gathered into the group's current requirement document.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Expired Documents:</strong> Mark expired documents as dead, but allow for potential revival if contributions are made.</li>
<li><strong>Liaison Response:</strong> Solicit proposals for a draft response to the liaison request.</li>
<li><strong>Taxonomy Draft (Action Item for Gino):</strong> Include explanation of the usage of regulator versus shaper in the taxonomy document. Further discussion on improving terminology based on suggestions from the floor.</li>
<li><strong>Taxonomy Draft (Action Item for Everyone):</strong> Read the existing topology yang model document to see if it is aligned with your needs.</li>
<li><strong>Multi-Domain Framework (Action Item for Carlos):</strong> Submit document outlining inter PC discussion that has occurred in prior meetings for the working group to discuss.</li>
<li><strong>Requirements Document (Action Item for Everyone):</strong> Provide input for changes to current document by creating a text draft that the group can discuss.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to stabilize documents under consideration for adoption, addressing comments and aligning with the taxonomy.</li>
<li>Working group to discuss proposed updates to the taxonomy document on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Continue discussion on the scaling requirements document and plan for updates.</li>
<li>Address the liaison request by developing a proposed response.</li>
<li>Merge documents regarding SRV6 for the next IETF meeting.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
