**Session Date/Time:** 25 Jul 2025 12:30

# detnet

## Summary

The detnet working group meeting in Madrid covered several key topics, including updates on published RFCs, discussion of the taxonomy draft, and presentations of various queuing and forwarding solutions. A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to presentations and discussions of proposed data plane solutions and their categorization within the existing taxonomy. Issues related to terminology, multi-domain networking, and requirements for scaling deterministic networks were also addressed. Finally there was a recap of the hackathon's result.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Taxonomy Draft:** Discussion centered around the definitions of "regulator" vs. "shaper", clarifying terminology, and refining the definition of "suitable category". Debate ensued about the classifications within the document.
*   **Queuing Solutions:** Several queuing solutions were presented, including Stateless Fair Queuing (Cisco), Deadline-Based Forwarding, Time Slot Queuing and Forwarding, and On-Time Forwarding with PIFO queue. Each presentation included a discussion of how the solution fits into the taxonomy.
*   **Data Plane:** Discussion around the need for a data plane solution using SRV6. The working group identified it as being an SRV6 based data plane, specifically related to pre-off functions
*   **Scaling Requirements:** Discussions on the scaling requirements draft and the need to update it based on adopted solutions.
*   **Multi-Domain Networking:** Discussion of requirements for multi-domain deterministic networking.
*   **Requirements Document:** Discussion of how to incorporate new requirements gathered into the group's current requirement document.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Expired Documents:** Mark expired documents as dead, but allow for potential revival if contributions are made.
*   **Liaison Response:** Solicit proposals for a draft response to the liaison request.
*   **Taxonomy Draft (Action Item for Gino):** Include explanation of the usage of regulator versus shaper in the taxonomy document. Further discussion on improving terminology based on suggestions from the floor.
*   **Taxonomy Draft (Action Item for Everyone):** Read the existing topology yang model document to see if it is aligned with your needs.
*   **Multi-Domain Framework (Action Item for Carlos):** Submit document outlining inter PC discussion that has occurred in prior meetings for the working group to discuss.
*   **Requirements Document (Action Item for Everyone):** Provide input for changes to current document by creating a text draft that the group can discuss.

## Next Steps

*   Authors to stabilize documents under consideration for adoption, addressing comments and aligning with the taxonomy.
*   Working group to discuss proposed updates to the taxonomy document on the mailing list.
*   Continue discussion on the scaling requirements document and plan for updates.
*   Address the liaison request by developing a proposed response.
*   Merge documents regarding SRV6 for the next IETF meeting.
