**Session Date/Time:** 23 Jul 2025 12:30

# httapi

## Summary

The HTTP API working group met to discuss several documents, including API catalog, Link Hints, REST API Media Types, HTTP Problem Types for Digest Fields, API Keys and Privacy, Rate Limiting Headers, Byte Range Patch, and HTTP Events Query.  The group celebrated the publication of RFC 9727 for the API catalog and discussed the potential of Jason Structure becoming a working group item.  Several drafts were discussed for working group last call, including Link Hints, REST API Media Types, HTTP Problem Types for Digest Fields, API Keys and Privacy, and Rate Limiting Headers. There were detailed technical discussions around byte range patch and HTTP Events Query

## Key Discussion Points

*   **API Catalog:** Published as RFC 9727.  Discussions are ongoing about using it for advertising agent cards.
*   **Jason Structure:**  Potential new working group forming to standardize JSON schema.
*   **Link Hints:**  Updated to use a subset of the structured fields data model.  Discussion about the appropriate level of expressiveness.
*   **REST API Media Types:** Ready for working group last call after verification with Roberto.
*   **HTTP Problem Types for Digest Fields:** Minor updates and ready for working group last call, contingent on clarifying interactions with unencoded digest draft in HTTPBis.
*   **API Keys and Privacy:**  Draft recommendations for preventing API key leaks.  Ready for working group last call, but chairs will recuse themselves.
*   **Rate Limiting Headers:** Few changes since the last IETF. Ready for working group last call
*   **Byte Range Patch:** Discussion about supporting non-contiguous ranges, registering media types (VC diff, append), and how it relates to the existing proposal within byte range.
*   **HTTP Events Query:**  Presentation on the HTTP Events Query specification based on previous research.  Discussion on how this compares with SSE.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Link Hints:** Post a note to the mailing list encouraging review of the changes regarding expressiveness.
*   **REST API Media Types:** Verify with Roberto that there is no outstanding work to do and post to the mailing list for working group last call.
*   **HTTP Problem Types for Digest Fields:**  Ask Lucas to explicitly state that the integrity fields defined in the unencoded digest draft also apply to the problem types. Initiate a three week working group last call.
*   **API Keys and Privacy:**  Request early review from the HTTP Directorate. Initiate a last call to generate further review.
*   **Rate Limiting Headers:**  Initiate a last call to generate further review and make a request to the HTTP Directorate for review.
*   **Byte Range Patch:** Austin will update the draft with VC diff and append proposals as discussed. Reviewers requested.
*   **Authentication Link:**  Ask again if anyone is interested in picking up and working on this. Otherwise, leave it expired.
*   **HTTP Events Query:** Raoul to continue the conversation on the mailing list.

## Next Steps

*   Move drafts closer to Working Group Last Call to the queue.
*   Encourage review of drafts using the mailing list.
*   Address action items specified above.
