<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="lake.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF123-LAKE-20250722-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 22 Jul 2025 09:30</p>
<h1>lake</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The Llake working group meeting at IETF 123 covered updates to several adopted documents, including Remote Attestation over Ad Hoc, Ad Hoc with Preset Key Authentication, and Lightweight Authorization over Ad Hoc (ELLA). New individual draft submissions were discussed, with a focus on post-quantum cryptography (PQC) solutions for ad hoc. A discussion was held on the potential rechartering of the working group to include PQC efforts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Remote Attestation over Ad Hoc:</strong> Updates included adding a section for the verifier role, deleting the ad-hoc error handling section, and clarifying instantiation examples.</li>
<li><strong>Ad Hoc with Preset Key Authentication:</strong> Changes were made to mitigate reflection attacks and enable resumption, along with terminology updates for credentials (CRAT PSK). Formal verification was discussed.</li>
<li><strong>Lightweight Authorization over Ad Hoc (ELLA):</strong> Editorial updates and merged pull requests were presented. Open issues include a generic use case for augmenting ad hoc and supporting post-quantum algorithms.</li>
<li><strong>Implementation Considerations Document:</strong>  More input from implementers was requested, particularly regarding ELA and remote attestation.</li>
<li><strong>Lake Up Profiles Draft:</strong> Feedback from Michael Richardson was incorporated, and error handling was defined.</li>
<li><strong>Exporter Output Length Negotiation:</strong> A new EAD item for in-band negotiation of exporter output length was presented, with discussion on whether it should be integrated into the Lake Up Profiles draft.</li>
<li><strong>Post-Quantum Cipher Suites:</strong> John presented a draft for registering new quantum-resistant cipher suites for existing ad hoc methods, including ML Chem and MLDSA.</li>
<li><strong>Kem-Based Authentication:</strong> Lydia presented a kem-based authentication method for edhoc, based on a 5-message exchange.</li>
<li><strong>Post-Quantum Authenticated Key Exchange:</strong> Yuri presented a formally proven, minimalist post-quantum authenticated key exchange protocol.</li>
<li><strong>Working Group Scope:</strong>  A consensus was reached that the group should work on post-quantum resistant ad hoc. Discussions were held on the scope of this work, specifically regarding cipher suites and kem-based authentication methods.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Formal Verification:</strong> Elsa to merge the PSK auth updates as soon as possible. Group chairs will trigger formal verification soon after.</li>
<li><strong>Implementation Considerations Document:</strong> Giovanni and Christian volunteered to review the implementation considerations document.</li>
<li><strong>Lake Up Profiles Draft:</strong> Marco will work on integrating the EAD item into the profile draft or keep them separate based on feedback.</li>
<li><strong>Charter Revision:</strong> Chairs will create a thread on the mailing list with the proposed new charter language including PQC items for discussion. The new Charter should be general enough to accommodate all KEM/SIG authentication methods.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Elsa to update the ad hoc with PSK draft to reflect the discussed modifications.</li>
<li>Implementers to review and provide feedback on the implementation considerations document.</li>
<li>Working group to discuss and provide input on the revised charter text on the mailing list.</li>
<li>Continue discussion on the PQC solutions on the mailing list.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
