<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="manet.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF123-MANET-20250724-1000">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 24 Jul 2025 10:00</p>
<h1>manet</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The MANET working group meeting in Madrid focused on the group's current charter, potential new work items, and updates on existing drafts. The main topics of discussion were the possibility of re-chartering, the feasibility of incorporating a Yang model for network management, and the status of the AODVv2 protocol. There were also presentations on Kura performance in MANETs, AODV implementation updates, and MANET interworking.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Charter Discussion:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>The AD expressed reluctance to re-charter the working group at this time due to concerns about sufficient community support and work already socialized elsewhere in the IETF. The group will continue under the current charter.</li>
<li>The discussion shifted to what work could be accommodated under the existing charter.</li>
<li>Concerns about potential charter overreach were raised.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Yang Model for Network Management:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Fraunover FK-I-E proposed a RESTConf interface and Yang model for MANET routers.</li>
<li>The working group discussed whether this work fits within the current charter.</li>
<li>Lou Berger and the AD suggested that Yang modeling is generally within the spirit of network management and potentially fits within the existing charter.</li>
<li>Lou Berger raised concerns about specifying RESTConf and JSON, advocating for transport and encoding independence for the Yang model.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>AODVv2 Revival:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>The group discussed bringing back AODVv2 as a standards-track protocol.</li>
<li>The AD stated that AODVv2 would require a re-charter and a demonstration of sufficient working group consensus and willingness to work on the protocol.</li>
<li>Charlie Perkins presented updates on AODVv2 implementation.</li>
<li>A show of hands was requested to gauge interest.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Gap Analysis for Interworking:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>The chairs suggested conducting a gap analysis to identify problems related to MANET interworking before proposing solutions.</li>
<li>Fred Templin presented on MANET interworking scenarios and the use of overlays.</li>
<li>Jim suggested Fred help define the problem space, which fits within the charter.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Kura Performance in MANETs:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Roland presented an update on Kura's performance in MANET environments.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> The MANET working group will <em>not</em> re-charter at this time.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> The chairs will determine next steps on AODV based on the poll results and potentially further discussion on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Fred Templin to contribute a document outlining problem definitions related to MANET interworking for gap analysis.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Henning Rogge to review Christopher Deilov's draft.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Continue discussion on MANET interworking on the mailing list to inform gap analysis.</li>
<li>Working group to consider a working group last call on the DELAP extensions from Henninger-Rogge.</li>
<li>Determine the level of support for AODVv2.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
