<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="openpgp.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF123-OPENPGP-20250725-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 25 Jul 2025 09:30</p>
<h1>OpenPGP</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This OpenPGP session at the IETF covered several working group documents and presentations on draft specifications. Key discussions revolved around post-quantum cryptography (PQC), replacement keys, persistent symmetric keys, a proposal for post-quantum crypto with NIST Brainpool curves, HKP updates, and forwarding key issues. The session included calls for reviews, discussions on adoption, and future work items.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC):</strong> The PQC draft has hit the publication-requested button. Interoperability testing revealed some gaps, particularly with V4 keys and support for non-required post-quantum suites.</li>
<li><strong>Replacement Key Draft:</strong> This draft is considered stable, but a clear way to test interoperability is lacking. Volunteers were solicited for reviews and implementations.</li>
<li><strong>Persistent Symmetric Keys Draft:</strong> Testing this draft is problematic due to how secret keys are handled in SOP. Further discussion is needed regarding the architecture.</li>
<li><strong>Post-Quantum Crypto with NIST Brainpool:</strong> A proposal was presented for hybrid post-quantum crypto using NIST and Brainpool curves. The primary motivation is to support existing implementations using these curves. The need and motivations for different NIST curves were debated.</li>
<li><strong>HKP Update:</strong> A proposal to update HKP to support multiple certificates per identity and to address spam issues. The presentation covered a new versioned submission API, pre-authenticated email verification, and canonical certificate ordering. There were discussions on complexity and the use of binary keys vs. legacy functionality.</li>
<li><strong>Forwarding Key Issues:</strong> Discussion of the current state of forwarding and the need for changes to support new algorithms such as X25519 and X448. A new packet, FKESK, was proposed.</li>
<li><strong>Media Types:</strong> Discussion regarding the existing media types for PGP and the need for new types to represent binary formats. There was no clear solution at this point.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>PQC:</strong> The chairs will nudge the rest of the process for PQC.</li>
<li><strong>Replacement Key Draft:</strong> Daniel and Aaron volunteered to review the draft. The working group will take to the mailing list to decide when to initiate a working group last call.</li>
<li><strong>Persistent Symmetric Keys Draft:</strong> The chairs will poke people to do reviews of this draft. Discussion will be encouraged on the mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Post-Quantum Crypto with NIST Brainpool:</strong> The authors will work to clarify the motivations for NIST curves in the draft. An adoption call will be initiated on the mailing list after clarification. Marked as a candidate for working group adoption in the data tracker.</li>
<li><strong>HKP Update:</strong> Andrew will produce a new draft reflecting recent discussions and decisions.</li>
<li><strong>Media Types:</strong> Andrew will have more chat with Alexi and maybe come back with a proposal at some point.</li>
<li><strong>Interoperability Testing:</strong> The working group needs to determine how to test interoperability for replacement key draft and persistent symmetric key draft.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>The working group will discuss what to do next after PQC is further along in the publication process, reviewing previously prioritized items.</li>
<li>Daniel to weigh in with concerns on list about options for persistence metrics.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
