**Session Date/Time:** 24 Jul 2025 10:00

# scim

## Summary
The SCIM working group meeting covered updates on the use cases draft, a presentation on the IPSI working group's SCIM profiling efforts, and a discussion of a post-IESG issue with the Device Models draft. The primary focus was on soliciting more reviewers for the use cases draft and addressing interoperability concerns related to changes proposed for the Device Models draft.

## Key Discussion Points
*   **Use Cases Draft Review:**
    *   Paulo emphasized the need for more reviewers on the use cases draft, highlighting that feedback has been primarily from the editors.
    *   Discussions included terminology issues, single vs. multi-tenant scenarios, and resource subscriber implementations (server vs. client roles).
    *   Nancy suggested a working group last call to force the issue of getting more reviewers, but Paulo felt the draft wasn't mature enough yet. Vendors were specifically requested to contribute reviews.
*   **IPSI Working Group Update:**
    *   Dean provided an update on the IPSI working group's efforts to develop interoperable and secure profiles of existing specifications, including a profile of SCIM.
    *   He requested reviewers for the proposed IL1 SCIM draft, which is currently in the OpenID Foundation.
    *   Nancy suggested posting the draft on the SCIM mailing list to solicit broader review.
*   **Device Models Draft Update:**
    *   Elliot presented an update to the Device Models draft to include a group object for devices and update the reference type to include "device".
    *   Shelley noted a need to add the group object and the device reference type.
    *   The core question for the group was about interoperability concerns if the reference type change was introduced, and if it would be necessary to update RFC 7643 due to enumeration in the non-normative schema.
    *   It was discussed if a mini last call was needed and what it should entail, in light of security review and changes to a normative change to a draft that had just cleared the IESG.

## Decisions and Action Items
*   **Action Item (Paulo):** Work with Nancy to coordinate requesting early reviews from security and sector directorates.
*   **Action Item (Nancy):** Ask acta and someone from Cisco, Microsoft, and AWS. Reach out to Anjali about providing a review.
*   **Action Item (Vakas Ahmed):** Find someone from Amazon to review the use cases draft.
*   **Action Item (Mike Kaiser):** Provide a review or find someone at Microsoft to review the use cases draft.
*   **Action Item (Unknown/Chair):** Find someone at Octa who can do a proper review.
*   **Action Item (Dean):** Post the IPSI IL1 SCIM draft on the SCIM mailing list to solicit broader review.
*   **Decision:** Do not put an update setter on the Device Models draft at this time.
*   **Action Item (Elliot):** Consult with colleagues in the ASDF world regarding endpoint app schema and group inclusion, then publish an updated Device Models draft.
*   **Action Item (Elliot):** Post questions and changes from the Device Models draft on the mailing list and request an ACK from vendors.
*   **Action Item (Chairs):** Rework the charter of the working group.
*   **Action Item (Paolo):** Add a new entry in the draft to handle the scenario of a domain user with an IDP and external applications such as email.

## Next Steps
*   Paulo to focus on securing more reviewers for the use cases draft.
*   Dean to post the IPSI draft to the SCIM mailing list.
*   Elliot to finalize the Device Models draft update and initiate a short consultation period before publication and request feedback from vendors.
*   Chairs will discuss the charter update to see what needs to happen to make it current.
