<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="teas.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF123-TEAS-20250723-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 23 Jul 2025 09:30</p>
<h1>teas</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>This meeting covered the status of various working group documents, a presentation on the proposed &quot;onions&quot; working group focusing on service abstraction, and several presentations on individual drafts including network slice topology, 5G QI to QoS mapping, RSVP authentication, and multipath traffic engineering. Discussions revolved around document adoption, potential overlaps with other working groups, and technical details of specific drafts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Working Group Document Status:</strong> Pavan reviewed the status of 24 working group documents, highlighting those needing attention including the applicability of IETF network slicing to end-to-end 5G network slicing, NRP YANG document, and NS models applicability document.</li>
<li><strong>Onions Working Group Presentation:</strong> Joe Clark presented the motivation and goals of the proposed &quot;onions&quot; working group, focusing on operationalizing network and service abstractions, maintenance of existing service and network models, and defining APIs around YANG-based models.</li>
<li><strong>Onions Working Group Discussion:</strong> A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to discussing the potential overlap between the teas and onions working groups, specifically concerning the possible migration of certain drafts from teas to onions. Lou Burger raised process concerns regarding the prematurity of discussing document migration before the onions charter is finalized and publicly discussed. The AD for teas clarified that no decisions have been made regarding document movement.</li>
<li><strong>Network Slice Topology YANG Data Model:</strong> An update was provided, emphasizing the relationship between this model and ACTN BN type Q, and justifying the decision not to include a &quot;when&quot; condition in the model.</li>
<li><strong>5G QI to QoS Mapping:</strong> A presentation was given on mapping 5G QI's to IP QoS, clarifying the scope, intended audience, and relationship to 3GPP. Adrian Farrell questioned the need for the document if it only provides illustrative examples.</li>
<li><strong>RSVP Authentication:</strong> Joel Halper presented updates on two drafts: RSVP authentication v2 (algorithm agility) and HMAC SHA2 for RSVP. A call for comments was made before requesting working group adoption.</li>
<li><strong>Multipath Traffic Engineering (MPTE):</strong> A presentation covered the main features of MPTE, including RSVP-TE signaling, data model, and the use of junctions. Discussion involved the advantages of MPTE over multipath TE containers, the handling of protection, the role of notifications, and reducing overall message overhead.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>L3-TOPO Document:</strong> Chairs will work with Schufeing to revive the expired L3-TOPO document.</li>
<li><strong>Charter Update:</strong> A charter update for teas is planned.</li>
<li><strong>Onions Working Group Impact Assessment</strong>: Med will evaluate feedback from all relevant working groups (TEAS, CCAMP, etc.) to decide on next steps for the Onions charter.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors of drafts needing write-ups should complete them.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing lists regarding the onions working group and its potential impact on teas.</li>
<li>Seek further comments from TSBWG on the 5G QI to QoS Mapping draft.</li>
<li>The chairs will coordinate with the TSBWG to determine the home of the 5G QI to QoS mapping document.</li>
<li>Joel to begin adoption call for RSVP authentication v2 (algorithm agility) once comments have been addressed.</li>
<li>Continue adding to and refining the architecture, RSAP, and Yang model for the Multipath TE draft.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
