<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="tvr.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF123-TVR-20250723-1400">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 23 Jul 2025 14:00</p>
<h1>tvr</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The TVR working group met to discuss the progress of various drafts, including the applicability statement, Yang data models, requirements document, and the Alto exposure draft. Key topics included the applicability of node and topology models, error handling, clock synchronization, model updates, and potential future charter items.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Applicability Draft:</strong> Discussion on when the node and topology models are applicable. The group discussed error handling and the importance of specifying clock synchronization based on the underlying source of scheduling information, not just the controller.</li>
<li><strong>Yang Data Models:</strong> Updates to the Yang data models were presented, including the removal of a container and the addition of configuration examples. There was discussion on the time source, and the potential for augmenting the model to include this information. Concern about the time precision using UTC was discussed to be taken to NetMod.</li>
<li><strong>Requirements Document:</strong> Minor updates to the requirements document were presented, mainly clarifying definitions of timeline, time horizon, and snapshot. A discussion on execution locality ensued, and potential for schedule conflicts. Also, the fidelity of schedule elements in the context of potential time drift. A WG Last Call was proposed.</li>
<li><strong>Alto Exposure Draft:</strong> The draft is being refocused as a more general &quot;off-path&quot; solution, removing Alto-specific references. The name change to TVR off-path was suggested.</li>
<li><strong>Future Charter Items:</strong> The group discussed potential future work items, including the coexistence of topology variability in satellite and terrestrial networks, ensuring synchronization with TVR models in other working groups (e.g., IDR), and considering the use of scheduling information for congestion management and path computation.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Clarify the definition of schedule conflicts and freshness in the applicability draft.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Consider adding a mechanism for specifying the time source in the Yang data models.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Discuss the TAI proposal related to time precision using UTC on the NetMod mailing list.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Discuss whether there is concept of independent scheduling authorities for elements in a device.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Begin working group last call for Requirements document.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Explore renaming the Alto exposure draft to &quot;TVR off-path.&quot;</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Create a formal zero version of the renamed off-path draft.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Post a poll on the mailing list to confirm the preference for the name &quot;TVR off-path&quot;.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Discuss the satellite topic on mailing list and its implications to terrestrial networks, and routing.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>Authors to revise drafts based on the feedback received.</li>
<li>Chair to initiate a WG Last Call for the requirements document.</li>
<li>Continue discussions on the mailing list regarding future charter items.</li>
<li>Present updates in the next IETF meeting.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
