<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="v6ops.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF123-V6OPS-20250721-1500">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 21 Jul 2025 15:00</p>
<h1>v6ops</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The v6ops working group session covered a variety of topics, including updates on existing drafts, presentations on new proposals, and discussions on the deployment of IPv6 in different environments. Key topics included CLAT, ICMP translation, IPv6 CE router updates, and the challenges and considerations for IPv6-only deployments in 5G and fixed networks. The meeting also addressed the state of CLAT support in major operating systems and discussed the potential for advancing certain NAT64-related RFCs to full standard.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Draft Updates and Last Call:</strong> Several drafts were presented, with discussions focusing on clarifications, outstanding issues, and readiness for working group last call. Specific drafts included:</p>
<ul>
<li>CLAT Recommendations</li>
<li>Translation of Untranslatable Addresses</li>
<li>IPv6 CE Router Updates (7084bis)</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>IPv6-Only Deployment:</strong> Presentations and discussions centered on the requirements, challenges, and potential solutions for deploying IPv6-only networks in 5G mobile and fixed provider edge (PE) routers.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>CLAT Implementation Status:</strong>  An assessment of CLAT support in major non-mobile operating systems was presented, with a focus on its utility and future evolution.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>NAT64 RFCs to Full Standard:</strong> A proposal to advance several NAT64-related RFCs to full standard was discussed, raising concerns about errata and interoperability.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Multi-homing and Source Address Selection:</strong> A presentation discussed issues and testing of multi-homing and source address selection behavior in common OSes with positive results.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>DNS Query Filtering:</strong> A presentation on DNS query filtering generated discussion about potential overlap with Happy Eyeballs and the need to balance performance with broken configurations.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>CLAT Recommendations:</strong> The chair asked for a show of hands to see if the group thought the draft was ready for working group last call, the consensus was clear.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Translation of Untranslatable Addresses:</strong> The chair asked for a show of hands to see if the group thought the draft was ready for working group last call, the consensus was clear.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>IPv6 CE Router Updates (7084bis):</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>The authors will review the draft in light of recent updates to the v6 node requirements (Sixth Man).</li>
<li>The authors will consider incorporating guidance on RA lifetime settings, drawing from real-world operator experiences and best practices.</li>
<li>The authors will consider the comments made regarding must/should statements for PD on the land and will take the discussion to the mailing list.</li>
<li>The authors will consider including the potential issue of forwarding of packets regardless of incoming interface.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>NAT64 RFCs to Full Standard:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Discussion on the NAT64 errata and the best path forward (update via BIS or errata) will be raised on the mailing list.</li>
<li>The XML will be updated to reference 7915 over 6145.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>CLAT Implementation Status:</strong>  The WG will consider publishing a link to the WG's wiki that will provide a continually updated state of CLAT on different platforms.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ul>
<li>The authors of the discussed drafts will revise their documents based on the feedback received during the session.</li>
<li>The working group will discuss the NAT64 RFCs and IPv6 CE Router updates in more detail on the mailing list.</li>
<li>The working group will consider developing clear definitions for IPV6-only and methods for monitoring IPv6 traffic.</li>
</ul>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
