<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="vcon.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF123-VCON-20250723-0930">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 23 Jul 2025 09:30</p>
<h1>vcon</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The IETF vcon working group met to discuss the progress on VCon (Virtual Conversation Container) specifications. The session covered updates on document restructuring, core protocol specifications, extensions framework, consent management, and upcoming work items. Key presentations included an overview of VCon containers, the core JSON schema specification, contact center extensions, and a new consent attachment proposal.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<h3>Document Restructuring</h3>
<ul>
<li>The original VCon container document was successfully split into three separate documents:
<ul>
<li><strong>Overview document</strong>: Informational document with use cases</li>
<li><strong>Core document</strong>: Core protocols and JSON schema</li>
<li><strong>Contact center extension</strong>: Specific extension model for contact centers</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>All three documents are confirmed as working group items</li>
</ul>
<h3>Core Protocol Updates (Dan Petrie)</h3>
<ul>
<li><strong>Versioning approach</strong>: Decided to deprecate semantic versioning in favor of an extensions-based mechanism</li>
<li><strong>Extensions framework</strong>: Defined compatible vs incompatible extensions with &quot;critical&quot; parameter for extensions that must be understood</li>
<li><strong>Appended vs Amended</strong>: Changed &quot;appended&quot; to &quot;amended&quot; for deep copy operations; future &quot;patched&quot; object will handle incremental changes via separate extension</li>
<li><strong>New party identifiers</strong>: Added SIP URL and W3C Decentralized ID (DID) support</li>
<li><strong>Session ID</strong>: Added SIP session ID to dialogue objects</li>
</ul>
<h3>Technical Architecture Decisions</h3>
<ul>
<li><strong>JSON format</strong>: Confirmed JSON over CBOR for better application developer adoption</li>
<li><strong>Security forms</strong>: Three forms - unsigned (trusted environments), signed (data integrity), encrypted (data protection at rest)</li>
<li><strong>Content handling</strong>: Inline content for smaller files, external references for large files with hash verification</li>
<li><strong>Media type registration</strong>: In progress with IANA media type mailing list</li>
</ul>
<h3>Dialogue Content Scope Discussion</h3>
<ul>
<li><strong>Imagery in dialogues</strong>: Strong objection from Dan Petrie to including imagery in dialogue objects</li>
<li><strong>Transcribable content rule</strong>: Dialogue should only contain transcribable content; imagery should be attachments</li>
<li><strong>Edge cases</strong>: Discussion of fax communications and presentation slides as special cases</li>
<li><strong>Resolution</strong>: Defer to mailing list for further discussion on content categorization</li>
</ul>
<h3>Contact Center Extension</h3>
<ul>
<li>Successfully extracted contact center-specific parameters into separate extension document</li>
<li>Defined new parameters for dialogue and party objects specific to contact center use cases</li>
<li>Extension mechanism validated through practical implementation</li>
</ul>
<h3>Consent Management (Thomas McCarthy)</h3>
<ul>
<li><strong>New standardized attachment</strong>: Proposed VCon consent attachment for structured consent management</li>
<li><strong>Required fields</strong>: Expiration, party identification, dialogue reference, consent array</li>
<li><strong>Optional enhancements</strong>: Terms of service reference, monitoring intervals, SCIT ledger integration, cryptographic proofs</li>
<li><strong>Integration with AI Prefs WG</strong>: Referenced AI preferences working group vocabulary for consent types</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<h3>Decisions Made</h3>
<ol>
<li><strong>Versioning</strong>: Adopt extensions-based versioning mechanism, deprecate semantic version parameter</li>
<li><strong>Document status</strong>: All three split documents confirmed as working group items</li>
<li><strong>Naming</strong>: Change &quot;appended&quot; to &quot;amended&quot; for deep copy operations</li>
<li><strong>Extensions</strong>: Accept contact center extension as separate document</li>
<li><strong>Core parameters</strong>: Keep dialogue application, disposition, and party UUID in core specification</li>
</ol>
<h3>Action Items</h3>
<ol>
<li><strong>Dan Petrie</strong>:
<ul>
<li>Update core document with &quot;amended&quot; instead of &quot;appended&quot;</li>
<li>Add required encoding parameter guidance for dialogue objects</li>
<li>Resolve media type registration questions with IANA</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Thomas McCarthy</strong>:
<ul>
<li>Upload new privacy primer version using extension framework</li>
<li>Address consent attachment feedback from Dan Petrie</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Rowan May</strong>:
<ul>
<li>Upload updated MIMI messages document using extension framework</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Jonathan Lennox</strong>:
<ul>
<li>Review extension mechanism against Q-Log precedent</li>
<li>Provide input on extension naming conventions</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Working Group</strong>:
<ul>
<li>Continue dialogue vs attachment content discussion on mailing list</li>
<li>Review consent attachment proposal for extension vs attachment classification</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ol>
<li><strong>Document reviews</strong>: Working group members to review updated core document and consent attachment proposal</li>
<li><strong>Extension refinement</strong>: Finalize extension mechanism based on Q-Log review and community feedback</li>
<li><strong>Consent framework</strong>: Address separation of SCIT-specific features from general consent mechanism</li>
<li><strong>VCon lifecycle</strong>: Defer lifecycle document discussion to next meeting due to time constraints</li>
<li><strong>Interoperability</strong>: Plan additional VCon interop events following successful April 2024 session</li>
<li><strong>Implementation testing</strong>: Continue hackathon work on various VCon implementations and workflows</li>
</ol>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
