<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <title>IETF Meeting Minutes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <header class="site-header">
      <div class="header-content">
        <a href="/">
          <img src="/img/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
        </a>
        <div class="header-text">
          <h1>Automatic IETF Minutes</h1>
          <p class="subtitle">Automatically generated minutes for IETF meetings</p>
        </div>
        <nav class="header-nav">
          <button class="menu-toggle" aria-label="Toggle menu">â˜°</button>
          <ul class="menu">
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a href="/about.html">About</a></li>
            <li><a href="https://github.com/ekr/auto-minutes">Source</a></li>
            <li><a href="/license">License</a></li>
          </ul>
        </nav>
      </div>
    </header>
    <main class="main-content">
      <p><a href="sacm.txt">Markdown Version</a> | <a href="https://meetecho-player.ietf.org/playout/?session=IETF112-SACM-20211109-1430">Session Recording</a></p>
<p><strong>Session Date/Time:</strong> 09 Nov 2021 14:30</p>
<h1>sacm</h1>
<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>The sacm working group meeting addressed the status of the CoSWID and Architecture drafts, alongside a critical discussion on the future of the working group itself. While the CoSWID document is nearing completion with a few remaining IANA-related issues, the Architecture document faces a lack of engagement and updates. The chairs and AD expressed concerns about the working group's lack of progress and energy, leading to a proposal to close the working group, with plans to transition or conclude the remaining drafts.</p>
<h2>Key Discussion Points</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>CoSWID Document Status:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Authors (Hank and David) reported that most concerns raised by the AD (Roman) and initial Area/Directory reviews have been addressed.</li>
<li>Approximately 4-5 minor, non-normative issues remain, primarily related to IANA registry handling.</li>
<li>A key technical discussion revolved around the proposed IANA registry name: <code>swid</code> vs. <code>coswid</code>.
<ul>
<li>Authors argued for <code>swid</code> to align with the ISO SWID Tag standard for controlled vocabularies and allow for dual usage and synchronization where beneficial, while maintaining a separate tag registry for CoSWID-specific extensions.</li>
<li>Reviewers and the AD raised concerns about potential divergence between CoSWID and SWID, suggesting <code>coswid</code> for greater independence.</li>
<li>Authors believe the current approach offers the &quot;best of both worlds&quot; by allowing synchronization without hindering CoSWID's independent evolution.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Architecture Document Status:</strong>
<ul>
<li>Kathleen Moriarty presented on behalf of the primary author, Adam Montville, who was absent.</li>
<li>Several recent issues have been handled, but open issues remain regarding security/privacy considerations, defining capability description methods, and adding an attestation section.</li>
<li>Kathleen volunteered to help draft the attestation section, with Hank offering review assistance.</li>
<li>Adam Montville is actively working with the Open Cybersecurity Alliance (OCA) on the &quot;Pace&quot; effort to instantiate the SACM architecture, with Michael providing support.</li>
<li>Concerns were raised about the pace of updates to the IETF draft and the primary development work occurring outside the IETF.</li>
<li>A call for additional reviewers and contributors for the draft received no immediate volunteers.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Way Forward for the Working Group:</strong>
<ul>
<li>The chairs (Karen and Chris) and AD (Roman) expressed significant concern about the working group's lack of energy and progress, noting a pre-established &quot;January timer&quot; for resolution.</li>
<li>Evidence cited included slow CoSWID updates and the lack of engagement/updates for the Architecture document.</li>
<li>The consensus among the chairs and AD was that the working group has &quot;run out of steam.&quot;</li>
<li>Hank requested that the CoSWID document be allowed to complete its process.</li>
<li>Kathleen requested that Adam Montville be given an opportunity to provide input on the Architecture document's fate, given its ongoing implementation work.</li>
<li>Discussion ensued about the future of the Architecture document, including suggestions to transition the work to Pace/OCA or to publish it as an Informational RFC with a more limited scope within the IETF to provide an artifact for the working group.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Decisions and Action Items</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>CoSWID Document:</strong>
<ul>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> The CoSWID authors (Hank and David) will make a strong, clear, and coherent recommendation regarding the IANA registry naming (<code>swid</code> vs. <code>coswid</code>) and other outstanding issues.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> Authors to provide an updated draft, addressing all of Roman's comments, to the working group mailing list by the end of next week (aiming for mid-November). This update is crucial for proceeding to IETF Last Call.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>SACM Working Group Closure:</strong>
<ul>
<li><strong>Decision:</strong> The working group will move forward with a plan to close.</li>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> The chairs will send a message to the working group mailing list announcing the plan to close the working group and solicit any strong reasons or commitments for keeping it open within a 1-2 week period.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><strong>Architecture Document:</strong>
<ul>
<li><strong>Action Item:</strong> The chairs and AD will follow up with Adam Montville offline to discuss options for concluding the Architecture document, including potentially down-scoping it, publishing it as an Informational RFC to provide an artifact for the working group, or formally transitioning the ongoing development work to the Pace effort within OCA.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
<ol>
<li>CoSWID authors to submit the updated draft addressing IANA registry naming and other feedback to the mailing list by <strong>end of next week</strong>. The goal is to get it through IETF Last Call for potential inclusion in the December 14th telechat.</li>
<li>Chairs to send an email to the <code>sacm</code> mailing list announcing the proposed closure of the working group, inviting feedback and commitments to keep it active.</li>
<li>Chairs/AD to engage with Adam Montville and Michael to determine the best path forward for the Architecture document, considering options such as an Informational RFC or transition to Pace/OCA.</li>
</ol>

      
    </main>
    <script>
      document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        const toggle = document.querySelector('.menu-toggle');
        const menu = document.querySelector('.menu');

        toggle.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
          menu.classList.toggle('show');
        });

        // Close menu when clicking outside
        document.addEventListener('click', function() {
          menu.classList.remove('show');
        });

        // Prevent menu from closing when clicking inside it
        menu.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
          e.stopPropagation();
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
