**Session Date/Time:** 10 Nov 2021 14:30

# tsvarea

## Summary

The tsvarea session provided updates on the state of working groups and significant discussions within the transport area. Key highlights included the formal announcement of the TRAM working group's shutdown, a call for authors to update RFC 5681 (TCP loss recovery), and a significant discussion around the growing body of multipath work across various protocols. The ADs proposed exploring the creation of a new group (research or working group) to address common multipath challenges like scheduling and congestion control. The TSV Area Review Team's contributions were acknowledged, and new volunteers were encouraged.

## Key Discussion Points

*   **Working Group Updates:**
    *   **IPPM:** Ian Sweat stepped down, Marcus Illar joined as chair.
    *   **TRAM:** The working group is formally being shut down due to inactivity, with its last remaining document in deep freeze and expired. Custody of TRAM RFCs and any future PMTUD work will transfer to tsvwg.
    *   **ALTO:** The working group is launching its new charter immediately after this session.
    *   **TCPM:** Core TCP work is progressing, with RFC 793 nearing completion and CUBIC in working group last call. There is an active search for authors to update RFC 5681 (core TCP loss recovery).
    *   **DTN:** Rechartering is underway, focusing on ops, management, addressing, and transport-related issues.
    *   **BIZ:** Business as usual, with ongoing work on security documents.
    *   **QUIC:** Drafts are in IESG edit review.
    *   **DCRUM:** Completed working group last call.
    *   **AMCAD:** Work is progressing on multipath QUIC (mp-quick), focusing on feedback taps.
    *   **TAPS:** The architecture document passed working group last call, and the interface document is in working group last call.
*   **Multipath Work Discussion:**
    *   There is a significant surge in multipath efforts across the area, including MPTCP, SCTP proposals, HTTP drafts, MPDCCP (adopted by tsvwg), and MPQUIC (likely to be adopted by quick).
    *   Common problems such as scheduling and congestion control across these multipath transports are not yet adequately resolved.
    *   QUIC was identified as an excellent experimental platform for multipath.
    *   The ADs are considering the creation of a new group (potentially a research group or a working group) to address these common multipath research and engineering challenges, seeking community input on the maturity of these topics.
    *   Lucas (from the quick WG) supported the idea, noting that scheduling and other aspects are out of scope for the core MPQUIC protocol but need to be addressed.
*   **SCTP Working Group Consideration:**
    *   A large number of SCTP drafts are currently being handled by tsvwg.
    *   The ADs raised the question of whether SCTP work would benefit from remaining within tsvwg (for cross-fertilization) or if a dedicated SCTP working group should be formed, given tsvwg's current load and the volume of SCTP proposals. Community input was invited.
*   **Document Status and RFCs:**
    *   Many drafts are in various stages of AD/ISG review.
    *   One document from DTN (default security context) was shipped.
    *   RFC 9040 (IP Capacity Metrics) and RFC 9097 were published.
    *   HTTP/3 and other items are currently waiting in the queue.
*   **TSV Area Review Team:**
    *   The ADs thanked the current review team members for their contributions, noting the light workload (less than one draft per cycle).
    *   A call was made for new volunteers to join the team, highlighting it as an excellent opportunity to gain insight into other IETF work with transport implications.
    *   Magnus noted that Michael Scharf also contributed a review that was not reflected in the provided slide data.

## Decisions and Action Items

*   **Decision:** The TRAM working group will be formally shut down immediately after this meeting. Any future PMTUD work for TRAM will occur in tsvwg, which will also take custody of all TRAM RFCs.
*   **Action Item:** Martin and Zaheduzzaman will have further discussions with Colin and potentially issue a call for interest regarding a new multipath group (RG or WG).
*   **Action Item:** The TCPM chairs are seeking authors to update RFC 5681.

## Next Steps

*   The ALTO working group will launch its new charter and work in an upcoming session.
*   Further discussions will occur regarding the potential for a new multipath group and the future housing of SCTP-related work.
*   The ADs will continue to encourage participation in the TSV Area Review Team.